AN Irishman who lives in Wuhan has told how he is spending his birthday alone today as the coronavirus continues to send the Chinese city on lockdown.

Psychology teacher Ben Kavanagh, from Kilcullen in Co Kildare has been living in Wuhan for almost two years.

Irishman Ben Kavanagh pictured with a mask and goggles is currently living in Wuhan Credit: RTE News

The psychology teacher is spending his birthday alone today as a result of the coronavirus

Medical staff pictured at a hospital in Wuhan today Credit: AP:Associated Press

Seoul Metro employees spray disinfectant in Wuhan Credit: AFP

Speaking to Newstalk Breakfast this morning, he explained how a friend offered to visit him today to celebrate his birthday but he cautiously declined the offer.

He said: "It's actually my birthday today and my friend wanted to come over to celebrate and I was like 'I don't know - probably best to give it a miss for now'."

Mr Kavanagh explained how he was forced to do a "big shop" on Sunday morning so that he has enough supplies to last him for a fortnight.

'BIG SHOP'

He said: "I went out there on Sunday morning and did a big shop then, so I'm alright for maybe 10 days, two weeks or so - but after that I'll have to go back out.

"When you do see people, everyone just keeps themselves to themselves and just tries to stay away from other people.

"You're suspicious of other people, strangely - 'maybe that person's infected and they don't know it' - cause there's such a long incubation period and you can still infect others."

'LEAVING MY LIFE BEHIND'

When asked if he would leave Wuhan if he could, the Kildare man said: "The Irish Government are looking at measures right now and they've been in contact with the Irish people in Wuhan - but if I leave, I feel like I'd be leaving my life behind."

He then added: "As the days go on you get a little more worried - but I try not to worry as best I can because there's no point worrying.

"If things change in the future and if the situation gets much worse then I'll probably start to worry, but even then what's the point - what can I do to change it?"

CHINESE STUDENT IN IRELAND

Meanwhile, a Chinese student who travelled from Wuhan to Ireland was yesterday put into isolation.

The possible patient is being kept in isolation in Waterford as a "precautionary measure".

He arrived in Ireland yesterday, having left Wuhan days ago before the city was shut off.

He is not unwell or showing any symptoms at the moment, but has been quarantined to be safe.

'AS A PRECAUTION'

WIT said in a statement: "A student arrived in Waterford on Sunday having left Wuhan some days ago before the city was closed.

"He is not ill and as a precaution he has agreed not to attend college and stay in his accommodation by himself for the time being."

52 people across Northern Ireland, England, Wales and Scotland have already been tested for the deadly flu-like virus were negative, but there are fears the UK could have its first positive test "within days".

MOST READ IN NEWS BIZ HIT Owner of one of Ireland’s busiest pubs says Covid-19 fears are battering business attack quiz Two men arrested as seven people injured in aggrevated burglary in south Dublin CASH BLING Gardai reveal young yobs working for gangs are easily spotted in flashy clothes CELEBRATIONS AXED Towns cancel St Patrick's Day parades as Covid-19 cases count rises to 18 Exclusive DEVIL'S OWEN First pic of Kinahan foot soldier found with loaded gun as part of hit bid wet & windy Rainfall warning put in place for county as wintry showers expected next week

As of today, 16 countries across the globe have confirmed cases of the virus in their country.

The disease has claimed the lives of 106 people since emerging in a market in Wuhan.

Elsewhere, the HSE have issued some infographics for emergency departments in dealing with potential cases of the virus.