People scramble to buy face masks in a medical supply store a day after Philippine government confirmed the first novel coronavirus case, in Manila, January 31, 2020. Eloisa Lopez, Reuters

MANILA—Senate President Vicente Sotto III on Saturday called on Malacañang to ban all travelers from China entering the Philippines, amid the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak that started in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

Meanwhile, in a tweet Friday, Sotto suggested it would be “safer” for Filipinos to remain in Wuhan because they risk being “discriminated here.”

In a statement, Sotto said travel restriction should not be limited to just Chinese citizens.

“Flights from China do not only have Chinese people aboard. There are other nationalities on these flights and they, too, should be barred from entering our country,” he said.

“The virus does not discriminate whom it will affect. It can affect anyone.”

Sotto stressed that “the government should take all the necessary precautions to ensure the safety and health of our people.”

President Rodrigo Duterte on Friday ordered a ban on travelers from Hubei province, where Wuhan is, to prevent the spread of the disease.

Vice-President Leni Robredo and other senators, however, said Manila should impose a total travel ban on China since patients stricken with 2019-nCoV could cross to other provinces near Hubei, and from there, travel to the Philippines.

In a tweet, Sotto wondered whether bringing Filipinos home from Wuhan was advisable.

“Repatriate Pinoys from Wuhan? Isn’t it safer to stay put, stay safe in their homes there instead of being discriminated here?” he said.

Repatriate Pinoys from Wuhan? Isn't it safer to stay put, stay safe in their homes there instead of being discriminated here? — Tito Sotto (@sotto_tito) January 31, 2020

Earlier, Health Secretary Francisco Duque III said the Philippines will proceed with its plan to repatriate Filipinos in Wuhan, after he confirmed the first 2019-nCoV case in Manila on Thursday.

“We cannot hamper the desire of our people in Wuhan to come home. What we should do is to facilitate it, but subject to the quarantine measures that they should go under, and that’s for 14 days,” Duque told radio DZMM.