Coronavirus Gives Billionaires Jitters; Bill Gates, Jack Ma Pledge Millions of 5 Next Prev







Play Slideshow Coronavirus Scare 7 Feb, 2020 As the spread of coronavirus continued unabated across China, claiming at last count, 490 lives, philanthropic celebrities and billionaire CEOs have helped authorities fight back. Here’s a look at the donations that have poured in. As the spread of coronavirus continued unabated across China, claiming at last count, 490 lives, philanthropic celebrities and billionaire CEOs have helped authorities fight back. Here’s a look at the donations that have poured in. Next Bill And Melinda Gates Foundation 7 Feb, 2020 The foundation started by the Microsoft co-founder and his wife committed $10 million in emergency funds and corresponding support. The foundation started by the Microsoft co-founder and his wife committed $10 million in emergency funds and corresponding support. Next Jack Ma Pledges $14.5 million 7 Feb, 2020 Alibaba co-founder and China’s richest man Jack Ma pledged $14.5 million to help fight the coronavirus outbreak. In addition, his Alibaba Group Holding Ltd has also offered to establish a 1 billion yuan ($145 million) fund and share its artificial intelligence expertise with researchers. Alibaba co-founder and China’s richest man Jack Ma pledged $14.5 million to help fight the coronavirus outbreak. In addition, his Alibaba Group Holding Ltd has also offered to establish a 1 billion yuan ($145 million) fund and share its artificial intelligence expertise with researchers. Next Tencent Founder's Heartfelt Gesture 7 Feb, 2020 Ma Huateng, also known as Pony Ma, the founder of Chinese tech giant Tencent that created WeChat and TikTok, donated 300 million yuan (about $42 million) to help ease the coronavirus situation in the worst-hit areas. WeChat is also working on maps that show locations of hospitals that are receiving patients in over 300 Chinese cities. Ma Huateng, also known as Pony Ma, the founder of Chinese tech giant Tencent that created WeChat and TikTok, donated 300 million yuan (about $42 million) to help ease the coronavirus situation in the worst-hit areas. WeChat is also working on maps that show locations of hospitals that are receiving patients in over 300 Chinese cities. Next François-Henri Pinault 7 Feb, 2020 The Kering Group, the parent company of brands like Gucci, Alexander McQueen, Ulysse Nardin among others, will donate 7.5 million yuan ($1.08 million). Pinault is the chairman of the Kering Group. The funds are to be donated to the Red Cross Foundation in Hubei, and will be used to care for medical staff and patients at hospitals. The Kering Group, the parent company of brands like Gucci, Alexander McQueen, Ulysse Nardin among others, will donate 7.5 million yuan ($1.08 million). Pinault is the chairman of the Kering Group. The funds are to be donated to the Red Cross Foundation in Hubei, and will be used to care for medical staff and patients at hospitals. Next

One may say it’s too soon for reflections, considering the new year is barely a month old. But Ritesh Agarwal , founder of Oyo Hotels and Homes , penned a blog post recently where he spoke at length about the challenges posed by the Coronavirus epidemic. “I want to emphasise that the health and wellness of all our stakeholders is a key priority for us. We have already restricted work travel to and from China , with only a few business-critical exceptions,” Agarwal wrote.“We understand that the current situation would impact OYO’s business and operations in the country. But that does not mean that we will compromise on the well-being of our teams, guests or partners at any cost,” he added.Calling it a “difficult phase”, he said the company will soon announce measures that it intends to take in China.