The Philippine Overseas Employment Administration and the Overseas Workers Welfare Administration will assist Filipinos with work permits in China and its special administrative regions affected by the temporary travel ban to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).

Bureau of Immigration (BI) spokesperson Dana Sandoval made the assurance Monday, the day after President Rodrigo Duterte temporarily banned Filipinos from traveling to China and its special administrative regions, Hong Kong and Macao.

The ban includes overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) who are currently home on vacation and wish to return to China, Hong Kong or Macao for work.

Her statement is contrary to Philippine Ambassador to China Jose Santiago “Chito” Romana’s initial statement that Filipinos with work permits in China and its special administrative regions are not covered by the temporary travel ban.

“Lahat po ng (All) Filipino nationals who are in the country will not be allowed to depart for Hong Kong, China, and Macao. The ban does not specify exemptions,” Sandoval said in a press briefing in Malacañang.

“Wala pong (There is no) distinction between visa types dun sa lumabas na direktiba doon sa (in the directive on the) travel ban,” she added.

Sandoval acknowledged that OFWs who want to return to China, Hong Kong or Macao are concerned about their absences from work.

However, she assured that the two attached agencies of the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) will put in place measures to ensure that they get to keep their jobs.

Upon the instruction of Labor Secretary Silvestre Bello III, OWWA will also provide P10,000 cash, accommodation arrangement and transportation to each stranded OFW caught in the travel ban.

“We fully understand because kung yun ang talagang kinabubuhay nila (if it’s really their main source of income) but I believe the POEA and the OWAA will be doing their part in ensuring na itong mga trabaho ng ating mga kababayan abroad ay mananatili (that our citizens will still get to keep their jobs) despite this travel ban,” Sandoval said.

“Given the situation, I’m sure everyone understands that each country has been conducting their own restrictions when it comes to travel. We are doing this for the protection of everybody,” she added.

Asked if Duterte’s temporary travel ban could be extended to other countries besides China, Hong Kong and Macao, Sandoval said it will depend on the recommendations by the Department of Health (DOH) and the World Health Organization (WHO).

“If there is a need to expand it, it will be recommended by the DOH and the WHO,” Sandoval said.

Meanwhile, Sandoval also rejected criticisms that Duterte’s declaration of the travel ban was “too late.”

“We believe that it’s just right. Naka angkla po tayo (We are anchored) on the recommendations of the WHO. Ang ating (The) DOH is equipped in assessing the situation and the needs of our country. Our response is appropriate with the recommendation of the WHO,” she added.

Repatriation efforts

Currently, at least 42 Filipinos in Hubei province expressed interest to be repatriated amid the 2019-nCoV epidemic, Foreign Affairs Undersecretary Ernesto Abella said in the same press briefing.

Abella said the agency is expected to bring the first batch of Filipinos back home within the week.

“The aircraft may leave for China sometime this week,” Abella said.

Aside from a DFA team, medical personnel from the DOH will be deployed to pick up the Filipino repatriates from Hubei province.

All Filipino repatriates will all be required to undergo mandatory 14-day quarantine.

Abella said no one among 295,047 Filipinos in China have been infected with the deadly virus.

Duterte is scheduled to preside over a meeting with the Inter-agency Task Force for the Management of Emerging Infectious Diseases on the government on government response amid the 2019-nCoV outbreak on Monday afternoon. (PNA)