Other Stories

Exclusive interview with Swedish physician Karin M. Hehenberger Karin M. Hehenberger, M.D., Ph.D. is a Swedish physician, investor, business executive, and diabetes expert, known for her work in the field of biotechnology. Read more

200 Georgians will be delivered today from Italy by flight Rome-Tbilisi Today, 200 Georgian citizens will be delivered from Italy on a Georgian Airlines flight Rome – Tbilisi, CEO of the airline Roman Bokeria said. Read more

Georgian Doctor at Hopkins University About Coronavirus Mamuka Machaidze, a Georgian doctor at Hopkins University, publishes a post about new respiratory disease coronavirus Read more

13 cases of Coronavirus confirmed in Georgia 13 cases of Coronavirus confirmed in Georgia, Amiran Gamkrelidze, Director of Decease Control Center of Georgia said. Read more

WHO recommends Georgia to prepare for three scenarios amid Coronavirus cases We recommend the authorities of different countries to prepare for three possible scenarios, Head of the WHO Georgia Office Silviu Domente told reporters on Friday. Read more

Coronavirus cases in Georgia jumps to 9 Nine cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in Georgia. The above information has been posted on the web page specially created by the Government of Georgia. Read more

Third case of Coronavirus was confirmed in Georgia Third case of Coronavirus was confirmed in Georgia, Director of the National Center for Disease Control and Public Health, Amiran Gamkrelidze stated today. Read more

The Reason Why a Georgian Teacher Stayed in China's Locked City Megi Vibliani has been living in China since 2014. As the respiratory disease coronavirus continues to spread at a very fast speed, she was proposed to leave the country Read more

Georgia will take measures to prevent spread of Coronavirus from Iran Georgia is about to take specific measures in relation to those who have travelled to Iran for the past two weeks, Amiran Gamkrelidze, head of the Center for Disease Control, said during a special briefing. Read more

Shopping in Supermarket With a Travel Bag- Georgian In Wuhan Georgian citizen Nini Davlianidze lives in Wuhan, China at the epicenter of the spread of coronavirus. Read more

Who is the richest child in Georgia Bera and Nanuka's child was born in November 2019. Nanuka Gudavadze reportedly gave birth at Ivanishvili's residence in the village of Chorvila in Sachkhere Municipality. Read more

Nikoloz Sherazadishvili becoming a Champion in Paris Georgian born, Spanish Judoka Nikoloz Sherazadishvili (90kg) won a gold medal at the Paris Grand Slam. Read more

10-year-old Korean singing in Georgian A couple of weeks ago, the video of a 10-year-old Korean Dael Heo, speaking perfect Georgian went viral on the internet. Read more

International Insurance Company Kamara has a new owner “Metro Holding” and “New Investment Opportunities Ltd” have purchased the Insurance Company “Kamara”. The State Insurance Supervision Service of Georgia has already approved this deal. Read more

Khatia Buniatishvili Returning to Carnegie Hall Khatia Buniatishvili, the Georgian concert pianist, returns to Carnegie Hall Read more

"I believe that China can overcome this disaster"-Georgian citizen after returning from China Georgian citizen Tamuna Lutidze who was transferred from Tbilisi International Airport to the infectious hospital because of the coronavirus threat publishes a post on Facebook telling the story of the treatment. Read more

Can you recognize Freedom Square in a new Fast&Furious trailer? Universal Pictures has published the first full trailer for Fast and Furious 9. The film is scheduled to be theatrically released in the United States on May 22, 2020. Read more

Four Chinese treated for the flu at Tbilisi Infectious Clinic Four patients are currently being treated for the flu virus at Tbilisi Infectious Disease Clinic. Read more

Square in Wroclaw opens named after Georgian officers The Georgian Ambassador to Poland Ilia Darchiashvili reports on his official Facebook page that the Polish city of Wroclaw is now home to a square named after Georgian officers of the Polish Army. Read more

Georgia suspends direct air flights from China Direct air traffic with the People's Republic of China has been temporarily suspended, as part of preventive measures against the spread of coronavirus, Civil Aviation Agency says. Read more