Two people who had been confirmed to have the coronavirus have been discharged from hospital in Adelaide.

The couple, both aged 60, arrived in South Australia from China last month on a direct flight.

They were admitted to the Royal Adelaide Hospital where they were held in isolation for the past two weeks.

SA Health said on Friday the pair had recovered and had since returned negative results to multiple tests for the virus.

“There is no risk to the public as they have been fully cleared of the virus,” the department said in a statement.

Another 21 people in SA are still waiting for the results of tests for the disease.

media_camera Two people confirmed as having the coronavirus have been discharged from hospital. Picture: Matt Loxton

This comes after another Australian is believed to have contracted the virus on the Diamond Princess cruise ship off Japan.

Marcelly, a Perth woman who didn’t give her surname,

told ABC radio a doctor told her father Val on Friday morning he had tested positive to the virus and would be taken to hospital.

Her mother Iris returned a negative result and remains on the ship.

They had both boarded in Perth in “fantastic health”.

“He’s actually feeling really good – that’s the strangeness about this situation,” she said.

media_camera Passengers walk along the deck of the Diamond Princess cruise ship. Picture: Charly Triballeau/AFP

“A lot of the crew have also fallen ill that are preparing the food so there are people saying it may be coming from the food, but again there’s nothing conclusive.

“My mum and dad both had a bit of mild gastro.”

She said her biggest worry was staying in contact with her father as he does not have a mobile phone.

Confirmation is being sought from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.

Of the 3000 passengers and crew on board the ship 2018 have been confirmed as having the virus, Japan’s health ministry said yesterday.

This is the biggest cluster of coronavirus cases outside China, with 44 people testing positive for the virus yesterday.

There are about 200 Australians on board the cruise ship.

Originally published as Two virus patients leave SA hospital