A bar has come under fire for a 'tasteless' poster advertising Corona beers for $6.50 'while the pandemic lasts'.

House on Hood, in Hamilton, New Zealand, posted a photo to their Facebook page of two men in hazmat suits and face masks holding up bottles of the Mexican beer.

'Virus or no virus, we still think Coronas are pretty great, so while the pandemic lasts, we're selling Coronas for just $6.50, all day, every day,' the caption read.

'Mention your corona loving mates to let them know about this great deal and you could be sharing a free one-metre pizza this Friday at House.'

Beverage company Lion, which distributes Corona beer in New Zealand, said it wants the ad taken down immediately.

House on Hood, in Hamilton, New Zealand, posted a photo to their Facebook page of two men in hazmat suits and face masks holding up bottles of the Mexican beer along with the 'tasteless' caption

The bar then posted a second tongue-in-cheek advert on Thursday, showing a Corona beer bottle wearing a gas mask

'We were unaware of the promotion and we do not condone it. We will be asking that it is discontinued,' it said.

Social media users were also outraged by the bar making light of coronavirus, which has killed 133 people and infected more than 6,000 worldwide.

'Worst advertisement ever. More than 130 people have died and many more is still suffering, whereas you guys are making fun of it, just to earn more money for your business,' one person wrote.

'Yikes. Not in the greatest taste, but go off I guess,' said another.

'How on earth do you think this is ok?! You wouldn't run a '$6.50 on all aussie beers for the entire bush fire season' so why is this okay?!,' another comment read.

So far, the coronavirus that began in China last month has spread to over 6,000 people in more than a dozen countries

'You gotta take this down aye. You're making a mockery out of so many deaths'.

'If the deaths would have happened in NZ then these guys wouldn't have used this ad. Are they saying that people dying far off do not deserve the same empathy or respect and that their deaths don't matter,' another said.

But some were amused by the ad, calling it 'brilliant' and 'pure genius'.

'Bloody good advertising! Let's hope the beers keep flowing,' someone wrote.

'Love it! Pure genius,' said another.

John Lawrenson, CEO of the Lawrenson Group, which owns and operates House on Hood, said there is a 'small but loud minority of people who get offended by everything'.

'So I'd just like to say thanks to all the snowflakes for the free advertising and thanks to everyone else with a sense of humour who liked the post,' he said.

House on Hood then posted a second tongue-in-cheek advert on Thursday, showing a Corona beer bottle wearing a gas mask.

Poll Is the coronavirus-themed Corona promotion in bad taste? Yes No Is the coronavirus-themed Corona promotion in bad taste? Yes 31 votes

No 116 votes Now share your opinion





So far, the coronavirus that began in China last month has spread to over 6,000 people in more than a dozen countries.

Its source hasn't been officially identified, but most evidence points to animals sold at a seafood market in Wuhan.

The outbreak in mainland China is now bigger than the 2003 SARS epidemic, when 5,327 cases of the killer virus were confirmed.

However, it is still behind the total toll of the outbreak, which infected 8,000 people.

In New South Wales, coronavirus testing is ramping up as authorities await lab results for 16 new possible cases referred for investigation.

NSW chief medical officer Kerry Chant urged recent visitors to the Chinese province of Hubei - the epicentre of the viral outbreak - to come forward.

'We want to get the message out that people with low-level symptoms need to come forward,' she said.

'We want to detect those cases and it will help us to better understand the disease.'

Dr Chant on Wednesday afternoon confirmed 16 possible coronavirus cases were being investigated in NSW, including a two-year-old child.

Two people confirmed to be infected in NSW have improved significantly and could soon be released from hospital isolation, Dr Chant added.

There have been more than 40 people tested for the infection in NSW.

There are now seven confirmed cases of the virus in Australia, including four in NSW, two in Victoria and one in Queensland.

Australians trapped in the Chinese city of Wuhan due to the viral outbreak will be evacuated to Christmas Island.