A Wisconsin resident has been sickened with a new virus that originated in China and spread across the world, the first case in the state and just the 12th in the U.S.

Health officials said in a statement Wednesday that the patient is isolated and is "doing well," but state health officials would not say where they are located, their age or any other details.

They said, although they will are not releasing the individual's identity, officials have been in contact with everyone who may have been exposed to the patient.

“The risk of getting sick from 2019 novel coronavirus in Wisconsin is very low," State Health Officer Jeanne Ayers said in a release Wednesday afternoon.

"We are responding aggressively to the situation and monitoring all developments. We are committed to keeping the public fully informed and will continue to provide updates as this situation unfolds," according to Ayers.

The patient had gone to Beijing, China, and was exposed to other cases of coronavirus while there.

Dr. Ryan Westergaard, chief medical officer in the Department of Health Services Bureau of Communicable Disease, said in a release the person was never hospitalized, but was evaluated and tested at the University of Wisconsin Hospital in Madison.

UW Health Medical Director of Infection Control Dr. Nasia Safdar said the hospital is taking precautions and reiterated that since the person was initially treated they have been self-quarantined at home.

Safdar said that the staff has been receiving ongoing training and has expanded the questions they ask about travel history. They are also coordinating with the CDC, DHS and local health authorities.

MONITORING POSSIBLE CASES

UW-Platteville announced several weeks ago that it was monitoring six students for the possibility that they had the virus. The students had just returned from a visit to Wuhan, China. However, the university has since finished monitoring the students, and they are reportedly healthy.

The Wisconsin International Academy, located in the Milwaukee suburbs, also announced last week that it was monitoring one student who had also returned from a trip to China. The student is not a confirmed case.

The closest confirmed cases, outside the one in Madison on Wednesday, are in Chicago. A woman who had traveled to China, as well as her husband, have been confirmed with having the coronavirus. Illinois Health officials say they have been isolated and are in stable condition.

WHAT TO DO TO KEEP YOURSELF SAFE

DHS provided a list of the symptoms and what to watch out for related to the virus, explaining that the symptoms include fever, cough, and difficulty breathing, which may appear anywhere from two to 14 days after someone is exposed to the virus. They range in effect from feeling a mild illness, like a common cold, to severe pneumonia that would put someone in the hospital.

They recommend taking the same preventative steps as they would for the cold or flu: cover your coughs and sneezes, wash hands frequently, and stay home when you’re sick. Influenza and other seasonal respiratory viruses are common in Wisconsin at this time of year.