Joanne Zhou was in the emergency room at the Montfort Hospital on Thursday with chest pains.

Zhou is, as she says, “visibly Chinese.” But she was not coughing or sneezing, nor did she see a need to wear a mask.

At one point, Zhou, 29, moved into a hallway to get a drink of water. Through a glass wall, she noticed a man gesture towards her to his female companion, then put his hand over his companion’s nose and mouth. Another woman covered her nose with a scarf.

“I felt hurt. They thought I was a threat,” Zhou said.

Public health officials and leaders of the Chinese community have sounded the alarm over words and actions that are stigmatizing members of the Chinese community over a mysterious virus that first appeared in China.

Three people in Ontario have tested positive for the coronavirus. A man in his 50s was taken to Sunnybrook Hospital in Toronto on Jan. 23 after he returned from travelling to Wuhan, China. His wife later also tested positive. The man has been released from hospital. Both he and his wife are recovering at home.

A third Ontario case was reported Friday: a Western University student in her 20s who had travelled from Wuhan to London, Ont. She is now recovered and well.

However there has been growing concern about reports of racist comments and action directed at people of Chinese and Asian descent.

“We need to learn from our experience with SARS, when Asians faced significant racism and discrimination,” Dr. Theresa Tam, Canada’s Chief Public Health Officer, tweeted on Thursday.

In Toronto, Chinese-Canadian community leaders held a media conference to say Chinese-Canadians were being singled out.

“We are being stigmatized because of the coronavirus,” said Amy Go, interim national president of the Chinese Canadian National Council for Social Justice.

Zhou has lived in Ottawa off and on for about 12 years and can remember only one other incident of racism directed at her. She was in a grocery store holding a jar of spaghetti sauce when someone told her to go back to where she came from.

She felt comforted that no one else in the waiting room reacted by appearing afraid.

“I hope people realize that the majority of Chinese people in Ottawa have not travelled to Wuhan. I personally don’t know anyone who has been to Wuhan recently. The most frustrating part is the assumption,” she said.

Earlier this week, Ottawa’s Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Vera Etches, said wearing a mask was not only unnecessary for healthy people, but could also create a “false sense of security” because people still tended to touch their faces. However, it’s not unusual to see staff or shoppers in Chinese grocery stores or Somerset Street establishments wearing masks.

Alvis Choi, program co-ordinator at the Yet Keen Seniors’ Day Centre at the Bronson Centre, says whether or not masks are effective, it’s common in the Asian community to wear masks to prevent illness — but don’t read too much into it.

“It might be helpful for the general public to understand that not every Asian person wearing a mask in public is sick.”

At the Kowloon Market on Somerset Street, cashiers wear masks, but only because they requested permission to do so, owner Victoria Chang said.

“I don’t support it, but it’s a personal choice,” Chang said. “If they want to wear masks, I give them masks.”

There has been a noted slowdown in business in Toronto’s Chinatown. On Somerset Street in Ottawa, some say business has been slow, but others say nothing has changed since the coronavirus appeared.

Chang said there was less traffic at Kowloon earlier this week, but she attributed that to the Lunar New Year, and felt that it might have perked up since Ottawa Public Health announced that a person being tested for coronavirus in Ottawa had tested negative.

Across the street at Phuket Royal, which serves Thai food, traffic has not changed, manager Kung Lim said.

A couple of blocks away, hairdresser Le Tang surveyed an empty shop, but that was nothing out of the ordinary because most people of Chinese background would get their hair cut before Lunar New Year, she said.

Michael O’Reilly was shopping for baked goods at Kowloon Market on Friday. Thousands of people die of influenza every year, but no one has died of coronavirus yet in Canada, he noted.

“Until it gets to the point where it’s a death threat, I won’t wear a mask or lock myself in the bathroom.”

ALSO IN THE NEWS

Russian bombers buzz Canadian airspace in Arctic

Youth group home worker in Orléans charged with sex offences

Egan: When proof is in the proof — grieving family credits vodka for cracking case