Ontario public health officials are investigating a confirmed case of coronavirus in London, less than a week after the potentially deadly virus was first detected in the province.

The unidentified woman, a Western University student in her 20s, tested positive for the coronavirus strain originating from Wuhan, China, where an outbreak has killed more than 200 people since December.

The London case is the third in Ontario and the fourth in Canada.

The woman had visited the affected region of China, provincial public health officials said Friday at a news conference in Toronto. She arrived in Toronto Jan. 23 and travelled home to London in a private vehicle.

Though experiencing no symptoms, she wore a mask for her entire trip home from Wuhan to London, said Chris Mackie, medical officer of health and chief executive of the Middlesex-London Health Unit, on Friday. When mild symptoms appeared Jan. 24, she sought treatment at University Hospital.

Folks, we now have a positive case of novel #coronavirus in #ldnont. The individual is a young woman who is a student at Western, but has NOT been on campus since returning from China.



The risk associated with this case is very low for several reasons:



1/ — Dr. Chris Mackie (@Healthmac) January 31, 2020

She was tested and released with followup from the Middlesex-London Health Unit and recovered in two or three days, Mackie said. “The illness was very mild. Recovery was very quick,” he said.

The woman remains in isolation in her home despite being well, he said. She has not been to Western’s campus since returning to Canada.

Both of the woman’s parents in Wuhan were hospitalized with an illness, but were not tested for coronavirus, Mackie said. Their illness was one reason why the woman was particularly vigilant on her return to Canada.

The only time she left her home was to go to hospital for testing, Mackie said. Her roommate had moved out shortly before she returned home, and her partner has worn a mask during every interaction with her since she got back.

“She went above and beyond to protect the public,” Mackie added. “Because of her awareness of the risks of her travel to Wuhan . . . she remained in isolation in her home.”

She will remain in self-isolation in her home until she is cleared by public health officials, Mackie said.

Western and the health unit issued a joint statement Friday, saying, “The student has not been on Western’s campus since returning to London, and Middlesex-London Health Unit officials have confirmed there is very low risk to the campus community.”

The woman initially tested negative for coronavirus, public health officials said.

Testing for the virus, an emerging public health issue, is evolving, said Vanessa Allen, chief of medical microbiology at the Public Health Ontario lab. Public health officials retested samples from the London woman using methods that examine different parts of the virus and obtained a positive result.

Ontario health officials are investigating 17 possible coronavirus cases in the province.

“The risk continues to be very low for Ontarians,” said David Williams, Ontario’s chief medical officer of health.

A London Health Sciences Centre official said its emergency department personnel took every precaution to ensure patient and employee safety.

Still important to:

– Wash your hands

– Cough in your sleeve

– Stay home if fever/ill

– Call public health if you have a fever and have been somewhere that #coronavirusis spreading.



6/6 — Dr. Chris Mackie (@Healthmac) January 31, 2020

“I’m incredibly proud of the staff at our University Hospital emergency department,” said Dr. Michael Payne, medical director of infection prevention and control.

“They followed our protocols and processes exactly . . . I can’t be more happy with our staff and physicians. We have a system exactly for these cases and it was followed.”

The woman was assessed in the emergency room and isolated immediately, Payne said. She was not admitted to hospital.

The coronavirus confirmation in London comes four days after public health officials announced the first confirmed case in Ontario, a man in his 50s who had recently travelled home to Toronto from the Wuhan region.

He was discharged from Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre in Toronto Friday morning and will remain in isolation in his home, a hospital release said.

On Wednesday, the province announced that the man’s wife, who had been isolating herself since returning from China, also had tested positive for the virus. She remains at home and does not require hospital care, public health officials said.

The novel Wuhan coronavirus was identified late last year after an outbreak of a respiratory illness in the city of 11 million. Coronavirus can cause flu-like symptoms including moderate to severe respiratory illnesses, fever, cough and pneumonia.

On Wednesday, Ottawa issued a travel advisory, warning Canadians to avoid non-essential travel to China and to stay away from central China’s Hubei province and its capital, Wuhan. The World Health Organization has declared the Wuhan strain of coronavirus a global health emergency.

Of the confirmed cases so far in Ontario, Mackie is encouraged by the individuals’ vigilance and the way they responded to their illness.

“I think it does point out how important the general public is as part of the system,” he said.

“Every workplace has a policy, if you have a fever, not to come to work. Same with schools. If we as citizens respect those policies and reach out to public health in circumstances like this, we strengthen the system and allow the health care system to do its job.”

jbieman@postmedia.com

twitter.com/JenatLFPress

WUHAN CORONAVIRUS A novel strain of virus that originated in Wuhan, China, late last year

Can cause flu-like symptoms, respiratory illnesses, fever, cough and pneumonia and can be fatal

Responsible for more than 200 deaths in China since the outbreak began

Travel to Hubei province or its capital, Wuhan, is a major risk factor for contracting the virus

People can protect themselves by avoiding people with the illness, washing their hands frequently and thoroughly, coughing into their sleeve, staying home if they’re sick and contacting local public health officials if they have visited a region where coronavirus is spreading and develop symptoms