EUR/USD is hitting fresh lows and has fallen into the large gap below 1.08 created in 2017. Meanwhile, EURGBP is back at the December2019 lows.

Tuesday’s ZEW miss in Germany does not bode well for future data releases as the coronavirus outbreak has caused the readings to dive.

This is on top of already dire manufacturing and GDP data. To top it off there is potential political upheaval as Angela Merkel’s succession causes uncertainty.

The coronavirus has rarely left the mainstream media headlines, but it seemed the market was able to overlook the outbreak and continue in its bullish trend. However, this all changed on Tuesday as Apple announced a profit warning due to the events in China. In a statement it detailed two adverse effects of the coronavirus. Firstly, iPhone production has been hindered by the reduced working schedule in place in China. Secondly, Chinese demand has understandably fallen. This won’t surprise that many people but it does underline how important China is to global brands, many of which have production facilities in China or at least rely on supply chains dependent on China. Perhaps the only surprise is that the market has been able to shrug off the bad news and continue higher so long.

Yet even in the wake of this news, many stocks are bouncing. Apple itself has recovered from a pre-market low of 310 to trade at 317. The S&P500 was 1% lower in early futures but is now only -0.5%. Meanwhile, currencies have been less sensitive to the virus spread and USDJPY is unchanged. The big mover among the G10 in Tuesday’s session has been the Euro on yet more concerning data.

Another Blow for Germany and the Euro

Tuesday’s ZEW releases in Germany are the first to reflect the economic sentiment in the wake of the coronavirus. Unsurprisingly, they aren’t great:

“The ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment for Germany decreased sharply in February, falling 18.0 points to a new reading of 8.7 points. The indicator is thus slightly below its December 2019 level. The assessment of the economic situation in Germany has also worsened compared to the previous month, with the corresponding indicator dropping to a level of minus 15.7 points, 6.2 points lower than in January,” stated the official release.

It went on to detail the reasons for the sharp drop.

“The feared negative effects of the Coronavirus epidemic in China on world trade have been causing a considerable decline of the ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment for Germany. Expectations regarding the development of the export-intensive sectors of the economy have dropped particularly sharply. “

This does not bode well for data due out in the coming months, especially since German data is already so weak. As ING point out, “German manufacturing is in a severe slump; there are trade wars, less demand from China and Germany's auto industry is especially suffering from major structural issues. “

A recession is a real possibility and the rumours from ECB ‘sources’ that the ECB may ease further due to the effects of the coronavirus no longer seem so far-fetched. To top it all off, political challenges and uncertainty could upset the markets as Angela Merkel’s successor is far from certain. Three candidates are in the running but a clear favourite or even a clear timetable for the succession are still unknown.

The Euro is understandably dropping again and EURUSD has broken below 1.08 and into the large gap from way back in 2017. The technical ‘gap fill’ is at 1.07664 and we often see a bounce from these levels. Looking for a bottom does seem a little premature.

EURGBP has fallen to 0.829 but has managed to hold a higher low with the December 2019 low. Tuesday’s session is particularly weak as UK employment came in better than expected and pushed the GBP higher.

Advertisement Save money on your currency transfers with TorFX, voted International Money Transfer Provider of the Year 2016, 2017 and 2018. Their goal is to connect clients with ultra competitive exchange rates and a uniquely dedicated service whether they choose to trade online or over the telephone. Find out more here.

Advertisement