Coyote and Badger Spotted Traveling Together Under Bay Area Highway NBC Bay Area (joe6pac).

Woman sees missing dog on beer cans promoting shelter dogs AP

Deep ocean oxygen levels may be more susceptible to climate change than expected Phys.org

Electric or Not, Big SUVs Are Inherently Selfish Vice

GM reviving Hummer brand with 1,000-horsepower electric truck Globe and Mail

Phantom Attacks Against Advanced Driving Assistance Systems Ben Nassi (DL). Oy.

The Battery Supply Problems Faced by Electric Air Taxis Avionics

Shale pioneer John Hess says key U.S. fields starting to plateau Reuters

Brexit

Sinn Féin leads way in Irish Times/Ipsos MRBI poll with highest support ever Irish Times (PD).

#2019-nCoV

Syraqistan

How an Army veteran became “Cyber Rambo” during alleged coup in Bolivia Business Insider

India

Trump Transition

Americans say they don’t like to talk about Trump at work but they do it anyway USA Today

Impeachment

2020

“You mean, on top of everything else, this ship is rigged?” — Stan Freberg I've never seen a more blatant example of concentrated money rigging an election than Iowa Dems releasing a random percentage of the vote after self-dealing grifters tied to Buttigieg fucked up an election, followed by the NYT, WaPost, CNN, and MSNBC announcing 'partial results.' — Matt Stoller (@matthewstoller) February 4, 2020 New Details Show How Deeply Iowa Caucus App Developer Was Embedded in Democratic Establishment Lee Fang, The Intercept. Acronym and Shadow shared office space, appeared together on same org chart, go to the same staff retreats, etc. The Unreality Of The Iowa Caucuses Benjamin Wallace-Wells, The New Yorker. “The word from the state Party was that about as many voters participated as had in 2016 (a hundred and seventy thousand), when the Democratic base was pretty listless, and far fewer than had in 2008 (two hundred and forty thousand), when Iowa voters were excited.” I don’t see how we can know this. The votes, thanks to the Clintonite apparatchiks who designed “the app,” have not been counted, so we don’t have a total. I’m so old I remember when the New Yorker had a fact-checking department, and fact-checking wasn’t a bad joke. DNC Blames Iowa Caucus Problems On Single F*ck-Up Senior Citizen Volunteer The Onion. Oddly, the senior citizen wasn’t of Russian ancestry.

Big Brother Is Watching You Watch

Imperiled information: Students find website data leaks pose greater risks than most people realize Harvard School of Engineering. [I]n less than 10 seconds she produced a dataset with more than 1,000 people who have high net worth, are married, have children, and also have a username or password on a cheating website. Another query pulled up a list of senior-level politicians, revealing the credit scores, phone numbers, and addresses of three U.S. senators, three U.S. representatives, the mayor of Washington, D.C., and a Cabinet member. Researcher: Backdoor mechanism still active in devices using HiSilicon chips ZDnet. Read all the way to the end.

Imperial Collapse Watch

Class Warfare

Altruistic food sharing behavior by human infants after a hunger manipulation Science (dk). n=48. From the abstract: “In a nonverbal test, 19-month-old human infants repeatedly and spontaneously transferred high-value, nutritious natural food to a stranger (Experiment 1) and more critically, did so after an experimental manipulation that imposed a feeding delay (Experiment 2), which increased their own motivation to eat the food. Social experience variables moderated the expression of this infant altruistic behavior, suggesting malleability.” dk asks: “But were the test subjects the babies of elites? At 19 months, some patterns may have already been acquired…”

Anatomy of a rental phishing scam Jeffrey Ladish

The long road to fairer algorithms Nature. An installed base is very difficult to change (“code is law.” See here, here, and here).

Antidote du jour (via):

See yesterday’s Links and Antidote du Jour here.