The video will start in 8 Cancel

Sign up to FREE email alerts from Daily Star - Daily News Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A Chinese TV travel presenter has apologised for a video of her eating a bat soup after the dish the creature was identified as virus hosts.

Presenter Wang Mengyun, who hosts an online show about world travel, said on her blog that she was unaware that bats could be a virus carrier when she appeared in the footage originally published online in 2017 highlighting its "delicious advantages".

She said: "I had no idea during filming that there was such a virus.

"I only learned about it recently. I didn't know that bats are a primary carrier of viruses.

(Image: AsiaWire)

"I really did not check the information or explain its dangerous nature."

Wang added she was filming in the island country of Palau in the western Pacific Ocean about three years ago when trying various local dishes, including the bat soup.

In the video, the presenter is accompanied by another woman as the pair sample the cooked bat.

She says: "It tastes very fresh, like chicken."

According to local media, the video was taken down but was later reposted by Chinese residents.

The latest reports said that 81 people have been killed by the deadly Wuhan coronavirus which has now also spread overseas.

According to the National Health Commission, nearly 2,000 cases of the virus have been confirmed and 324 are said to be in a critical condition.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

As health officials and researchers attempt to identify the virus' origins, experts from the elite Chinese Academy of Sciences said last week that its genome is 96% to a bat coronavirus.

But a coronavirus media claimed around " 100,000 people are infected".

The disease has now been detected in Australia, Nepal, Malaysia, Vietnam, Singapore, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, France and the United States.

In an effort to combat the spread, Wuhan has been completely quarantined as well as 12 other regions.