Map: There are now 12 cases of coronavirus in the US

In the U.S., there are 12 confirmed cases: six in California, two in Illinois and there is one each in Wisconsin, Arizona, Massachusetts and Washington state, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. less In the U.S., there are 12 confirmed cases: six in California, two in Illinois and there is one each in Wisconsin, Arizona, Massachusetts and Washington state, according to the Centers for Disease Control and ... more Photo: SFGate/ Getty Images Photo: SFGate/ Getty Images Image 1 of / 12 Caption Close Map: There are now 12 cases of coronavirus in the US 1 / 12 Back to Gallery

A new case of coronavirus was announced in Wisconsin on Wednesday, bringing the total number of patients testing positive for the pneumonia-like illness in the United States to 12.

There are also six cases in California, two in Illinois and one each in Arizona, Massachusetts and Washington state, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (See the map above for locations with confirmed cases.)

The adult patient in Wisconsin has been isolated at home after testing positive for the coronavirus Wednesday morning. The unnamed person came to the University of Wisconsin Hospital emergency room in Madison to be evaluated, said Dr. Nasia Safdar, director of infection control at UW Health. Those who came into direct contact with the infected person are also being evaluated. The patient, who has a history of traveling to China, is doing well at home, health officials said.

ALSO: 'It was an emotional experience': 178 coronavirus evacuees land in Northern California

The new coronavirus has infected more than 24,000 people after originating in the city of Wuhan in December. The majority of cases are in China, but the virus has spread to two dozen other countries, including the United States. On Thursday, China reported 73 more deaths from the new virus, raising the death toll to 563; there have been no deaths in the United States.

In the United States, 10 of the 12 people with the virus had recently traveled to China. There are two cases of transmission between spouses.

San Benito County: A 57-year-old man who had traveled to Wuhan tested positive for the virus and subsequently transmitted it to his wife, according to officials on Feb. 2.

A 57-year-old man who had traveled to Wuhan tested positive for the virus and subsequently transmitted it to his wife, according to officials on Feb. 2. Santa Clara County: The first Bay Area case was identified on Jan. 31; a man returned from Wuhan and Shanghai on Jan. 24, and left his home only for medical care. A second unrelated case was confirmed in the county on Feb. 1 — a woman who had visited Wuhan stayed at home except to go to a medical clinic on two separate occasions.

The first Bay Area case was identified on Jan. 31; a man returned from Wuhan and Shanghai on Jan. 24, and left his home only for medical care. A second unrelated case was confirmed in the county on Feb. 1 — a woman who had visited Wuhan stayed at home except to go to a medical clinic on two separate occasions. Los Angeles County: A resident of Wuhan tested positive for the virus in a screening while transiting through LAX on his return trip to China on Jan. 22.

A resident of Wuhan tested positive for the virus in a screening while transiting through LAX on his return trip to China on Jan. 22. Orange County: A man traveling from Wuhan tested positive for the virus on Jan. 26 and is in isolation.

A man traveling from Wuhan tested positive for the virus on Jan. 26 and is in isolation. Boston: A man in his 20s tested positive for the virus; health officials confirmed the case on Feb 2.

A man in his 20s tested positive for the virus; health officials confirmed the case on Feb 2. Chicago: A woman in her 60s was confirmed to have the virus on Jan. 24, and less than a week later, her husband was diagnosed.

A woman in her 60s was confirmed to have the virus on Jan. 24, and less than a week later, her husband was diagnosed. Tempe, Ariz.: On Jan. 26, a man who had recently returned from Wuhan identified as having the virus.

On Jan. 26, a man who had recently returned from Wuhan identified as having the virus. Washington state: A 30-something man tested positive on Jan. 21 and was the first confirmed case in the country. The patient from Snohomish County was in satisfactory condition as of Thursday, according to KOMO.

A 30-something man tested positive on Jan. 21 and was the first confirmed case in the country. The patient from Snohomish County was in satisfactory condition as of Thursday, according to KOMO. Wisconsin: An adult patient tested for the coronavirus Wednesday morning after traveling to China within two weeks. The patient is doing well in isolation at home, according to health officials.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that impact the respiratory system and can range from the common cold to more severe illnesses such as SARS and MERS. The viral respiratory illness spreading rapidly in China is a new kind of coronavirus known as 2019-nCoV that scientists have never observed in humans before. The new coronavirus can cause fever, coughing, wheezing and pneumonia. The incubation period is thought to be two weeks.

The State Department has warned Americans to avoid all travel to China. The decision came after the World Health Organization designated the outbreak a global public health emergency.

Amy Graff is a digital editor for SFGATE. Email her: agraff@sfgate.com.