JOHOR BARU: The Johor Health Department has urged the public not to panic in the wake of news that eight Chinese tourists have been isolated and are being monitored at a hotel here for symptoms related to the Wuhan coronavirus (2019-nCoV).

Its director Dr Aman Rabu said that it was the department’s standard operating procedure to quarantine potential victims as part of its measures to conduct thorough checks for the virus.

“I urge the public not to worry about this as the department has taken the necessary steps, ” he said when contacted here Friday (Jan 24).

Dr Aman added that the department has everything under control to handle the situation, and will double its temperature screenings at all entry points within Johor.

“We are working closely with the Immigration Department to conduct screening at all entry points including at the Bangunan Sultan Iskandar Customs, Immigration and Quarantine Complex (CIQ) and the Kompleks Sultan Abu Bakar (KSAB) near the Second Link.

“All travellers entering the country through the checkpoints in the state will have to go through our screening, ” he added.

Earlier, Deputy Health Minister Dr Lee Boon Chye said the eight people, who had entered Malaysia from Singapore, had had contact with the man who was confirmed to have the virus on the island republic.

“They are not patients. They are just being observed in case they develop any symptoms, ” he told reporters during a check on the preparations for handling any virus-related incident at the Sultan Azlan Shah Airport here earlier Friday.

“So far, there are no symptoms but they will be monitored for a week, ” he added.

It was reported that a 66-year-old Chinese national from Wuhan tested positive for the virus in Singapore.

The man had arrived in Singapore with nine travelling companions on Monday (Jan 20).

Dr Lee said there were no cases in Malaysia so far.

“There were four suspected cases on Wednesday (Jan 23), but all tested negative.

“The Health Ministry will beef up its temperature screening for all passengers at all airports in the country, ” he said.