LEXINGTON - Dr. Charles Lieber, chairman of the chemistry department at Harvard University, is accused of lying to federal authorities about his ties to China and was arrested Tuesday, officials announced.

FBI agents were seen removing material from his house Tuesday morning on Hayes Avenue in Lexington. This house is owned by Lieber, according to the Lexington Assessor's online database.

His case was one of several discussed Tuesday at a press conference in Boston.

According to a criminal complaint, Lieber did not disclose that he was being paid a salary of up to $50,000 per month and up to $158,000 per year in living expenses by China's Thousand Talents Plan and the Wuhan University of Technology. Federal investigators also determined that Lieber was awarded more than $1.5 million to establish a nanotechnology research lab at WUT.

"China's Thousand Talents Plan, according to the complaint (is) a Chinese government-run program designed to entice scientists and researchers in the United States to share their research expertise with China," said U.S. Attorney Andrew Lelling.

Simultaneously, Lelling said, Lieber was receiving U.S. grant funds from the Department of Defense and the National Institutes of Health.

Want news like this sent straight to your inbox? Head over to MetroWestDailyNews.com to sign up for alerts and make sure you never miss a thing. You pick the news you want, we deliver.

Lieber is accused of making false statements about his connections to China on National Institutes of Health grant applications. Lelling said those programs required Lieber to disclose if he was working with any foreign power.

"National Institutes of Health spends up to $39 million funding medical research in the United States. Those programs required Dr. Lieber to disclose if he was working with, including receiving funding from, any foreign power. When questioned, Lieber hid his involvement with the Chinese entities, including specifically disavowing any connection to China's Thousand Talents Plan," Lelling said.

As a Lexington resident, Lieber is known for growing massive pumpkins for regional competitions.

Hulk pumpkin tips scales at 1,100 pounds at Rhode Island competition

Another case being discussed Tuesday involves a Boston University researcher who is accused of failing to disclose her status as a lieutenant in the Chinese People's Liberation Army. According to the indictment, Yanqing Ye was taking orders from PLA superiors while conducting her research at BU.

She was indicted Tuesday by a federal grand jury, Lelling said.

Ye's research and studies in the U.S. were funded by the Chinese Scholarship Council, the document said. She was granted a J-1 non-immigrant visa in 2017 to conduct research at BU's Department of Physics, Chemistry and Biomedical Engineering's Center of Polymer Studies.

In her application for that visa, federal authorities said she lied about the end of her foreign military service and rank. Ye faces charges including conspiracy, acting as an agent of a foreign government and visa fraud.

The third case being discussed Tuesday is that of Zaosong Zheng, a cancer researcher at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, who was accused of smuggling vials of cancer cells on a flight from Boston to Beijing.

Among the delegation at the Moakley Federal Courthouse for the announcement were Lelling and Joseph Bonavolonta, FBI Special Agent in Charge of the Boston Field Division. Investigative leaders from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the U.S. Department of Commerce are took part in the announcement.