The 4-year-old daughter of Zhao Rui (pseudonym) watches TV in the arms of Zhang Chunmei, a temporary "mother" looking after her, at an isolation area in Yingjiang District of Anqing City, east China's Anhui Province, Feb. 20, 2020. Zhao Rui is the hostess of an ordinary family living in Yingjiang District of Anqing City in east China's Anhui Province. After the outbreak of the novel coronavirus disease, all the adult members of her family were unfortunately infected with the virus and sent to hospital for medical treatment, leaving two young children unattended. Learning their story, six nurses from local medical institutions took on the responsibility of taking care of the children, acting as their temporary "mothers". On Feb. 20, Zhao Rui was discharged from hospital after recovery and transferred to a quarantine to stay for another 14 days. In the quarantine, for the first time since she got infected, she had finally saw her children, in another building, in temporary mothers' arms. She waved to them and promised a reunion after 14 days. Under the arrangement of the staff members, she met with two temporary "mothers", Zhu Yan and Zu Lulu, at the isolation ward and knew that the number of temporary "mothers" has increased from 6 to 9. She made a bow to them from 2 meters away to show her gratitude. (Xinhua/Tang Yang)

The 2-month-old child of Zhao Rui (pseudonym) interacts with temporary "mother" Wang Simei at an isolation area in Yingjiang District of Anqing City, east China's Anhui Province, Feb. 20, 2020. Zhao Rui is the hostess of an ordinary family living in Yingjiang District of Anqing City in east China's Anhui Province. After the outbreak of the novel coronavirus disease, all the adult members of her family were unfortunately infected with the virus and sent to hospital for medical treatment, leaving two young children unattended. Learning their story, six nurses from local medical institutions took on the responsibility of taking care of the children, acting as their temporary "mothers". On Feb. 20, Zhao Rui was discharged from hospital after recovery and transferred to a quarantine to stay for another 14 days. In the quarantine, for the first time since she got infected, she had finally saw her children, in another building, in temporary mothers' arms. She waved to them and promised a reunion after 14 days. Under the arrangement of the staff members, she met with two temporary "mothers", Zhu Yan and Zu Lulu, at the isolation ward and knew that the number of temporary "mothers" has increased from 6 to 9. She made a bow to them from 2 meters away to show her gratitude. (Xinhua/Tang Yang)

Zhao Rui (pseudonym), a cured patient of novel coronavirus, meets with temporary "mothers" looking after her children, at an isolation area in Yingjiang District of Anqing City, east China's Anhui Province, Feb. 20, 2020. Zhao Rui is the hostess of an ordinary family living in Yingjiang District of Anqing City in east China's Anhui Province. After the outbreak of the novel coronavirus disease, all the adult members of her family were unfortunately infected with the virus and sent to hospital for medical treatment, leaving two young children unattended. Learning their story, six nurses from local medical institutions took on the responsibility of taking care of the children, acting as their temporary "mothers". On Feb. 20, Zhao Rui was discharged from hospital after recovery and transferred to a quarantine to stay for another 14 days. In the quarantine, for the first time since she got infected, she had finally saw her children, in another building, in temporary mothers' arms. She waved to them and promised a reunion after 14 days. Under the arrangement of the staff members, she met with two temporary "mothers", Zhu Yan and Zu Lulu, at the isolation ward and knew that the number of temporary "mothers" has increased from 6 to 9. She made a bow to them from 2 meters away to show her gratitude. (Xinhua/Tang Yang)

Temporary "mothers" Zhang Xiaoyan (L) and Wang Simei feed the 2-month-old child of Zhao Rui (pseudonym), a patient of novel coronavirus, at an isolation area in Yingjiang District of Anqing City, east China's Anhui Province, Feb. 20, 2020. Zhao Rui is the hostess of an ordinary family living in Yingjiang District of Anqing City in east China's Anhui Province. After the outbreak of the novel coronavirus disease, all the adult members of her family were unfortunately infected with the virus and sent to hospital for medical treatment, leaving two young children unattended. Learning their story, six nurses from local medical institutions took on the responsibility of taking care of the children, acting as their temporary "mothers". On Feb. 20, Zhao Rui was discharged from hospital after recovery and transferred to a quarantine to stay for another 14 days. In the quarantine, for the first time since she got infected, she had finally saw her children, in another building, in temporary mothers' arms. She waved to them and promised a reunion after 14 days. Under the arrangement of the staff members, she met with two temporary "mothers", Zhu Yan and Zu Lulu, at the isolation ward and knew that the number of temporary "mothers" has increased from 6 to 9. She made a bow to them from 2 meters away to show her gratitude. (Xinhua/Tang Yang)