Decision leaves tens of thousands weighing up huge choice without knowing why they should leave

The British government’s surprise announcement telling Britons to leave China “if they can” comes amid mounting international concern about the spread of coronavirus.

But the advice came with no detailed guidance about why the UK’s position had changed – making it unclear whether this was a political stance, or a position based on new medical guidance that British authorities have not shared publicly.

Other governments have cautioned against travel to China, or barred travellers who have made a recent visit. But the UK is the first country to advise its citizens to leave China, suggesting even greater concerns about the virus.

It is almost certain to anger Chinese authorities, who have already strongly criticised American and Australian bans on travellers from China entering the respective countries. It also puts tens of thousands of Britons living in China in an extremely difficult position.

Quick guide What is the coronavirus and should we be worried? Show Hide What is Covid-19 - the illness that started in Wuhan? It is caused by a member of the coronavirus family that has never been encountered before. Like other coronaviruses, it has come from animals. Many of those initially infected either worked or frequently shopped in the Huanan seafood wholesale market in the centre of the Chinese city. Have there been other coronaviruses? Severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) and Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome (Mers) are both caused by coronaviruses that came from animals. In 2002, Sars spread virtually unchecked to 37 countries, causing global panic, infecting more than 8,000 people and killing more than 750. Mers appears to be less easily passed from human to human, but has greater lethality, killing 35% of about 2,500 people who have been infected. What are the symptoms caused by the new coronavirus? The virus can cause pneumonia. Those who have fallen ill are reported to suffer coughs, fever and breathing difficulties. In severe cases there can be organ failure. As this is viral pneumonia, antibiotics are of no use. The antiviral drugs we have against flu will not work. Recovery depends on the strength of the immune system. Many of those who have died were already in poor health. Should I go to the doctor if I have a cough? UK Chief Medical Officers are advising anyone who has travelled to the UK from mainland China, Thailand, Japan, Republic of Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia or Macau in the last 14 days and who is experiencing a cough or fever or shortness of breath to stay indoors and call NHS 111, even if symptoms are mild. Is the virus being transmitted from one person to another? China’s national health commission has confirmed human-to-human transmission, and there have been such transmissions elsewhere. How many people have been affected? As of 6 March, the global death toll was 3,404, while more than 100,000 people have been infected in more than 80 countries, according to the Johns Hopkins University Center for Systems Science and Engineering. Why is this worse than normal influenza, and how worried are the experts? We don’t yet know how dangerous the new coronavirus is, and we won’t know until more data comes in. The mortality rate is around 2% at the centre of the outbreak, Hubei province, and less than that elsewhere. For comparison, seasonal flu typically has a mortality rate below 1% and is thought to cause about 400,000 deaths each year globally. Sars had a death rate of more than 10%. Another key unknown is how contagious the coronavirus is. A crucial difference is that unlike flu, there is no vaccine for the new coronavirus, which means it is more difficult for vulnerable members of the population – elderly people or those with existing respiratory or immune problems – to protect themselves. Hand-washing and avoiding other people if you feel unwell are important. One sensible step is to get the flu vaccine, which will reduce the burden on health services if the outbreak turns into a wider epidemic. Is the outbreak a pandemic? A pandemic, in WHO terms, is “the worldwide spread of a disease”. Coronavirus cases have been confirmed outside China, but by no means in all 195 countries on the WHO’s list. It is also not spreading within those countries at the moment, except in a very few cases. By far the majority of cases are travellers who picked up the virus in China. Should we panic? No. The spread of the virus outside China is worrying but not an unexpected development. The WHO has declared the outbreak to be a public health emergency of international concern. The key issues are how transmissible this new coronavirus is between people, and what proportion become severely ill and end up in hospital. Often viruses that spread easily tend to have a milder impact. Generally, the coronavirus appears to be hitting older people hardest, with few cases in children. Sarah Boseley, Hannah Devlin and Martin Belam

For many, a decision to leave could have significant personal, financial and professional ramifications, as it seems increasingly likely that the outbreak may last weeks or even months, so any absence would be long-term.

Those who have set up or run businesses may worry about how they will operate without key staff. Students may be penalised for leaving a course if they need credits towards a degree, while employees with contracts may be penalised for breaking them.

Families with children in school may not be able to find them a place to study in the UK – or elsewhere – at short notice.

Those whose relatives do not hold UK passports are likely to be particularly anxious after watching the confusion over who would be allowed to leave Wuhan, the centre of the virus outbreak, on evacuation flights.

The British government has not said if it will offer any financial support to help them leave, any guidance on whether insurers might cover some costs, or advice on whether dependents could get fast-track help with paperwork to come to the UK.

Nor is it clear what support – if any – the government will be willing or able to offer those who decide to stay on despite the latest advice. It has already reduced the number of diplomatic staff and warned that its support for citizens in China could be affected.

Tuesday’s decision effectively leaves tens of thousands of people forced to weigh up a decision with huge consequences – without any real understanding of why they are being urged to leave now.

Those who were in the quarantined centre of the outbreak, Wuhan, have already been evacuated. Those who are left are likely to be asking if the UK authorities know or suspect the coronavirus is spreading widely elsewhere.