Sign up to FREE email alerts from Daily Star - Daily News Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A British family trapped in China claim they will be split up in an imminent evacuation – with the mum reportedly barred from boarding a plane to the UK.

Sindy Siddle travelled to Hubei province – the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak – with husband Jeff and nine-year-old daughter Jasmine to spend the lunar new year with the family in the village of Hongtu.

Because she holds a Chinese passport, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) has said that she may not be able to board a plane out of the country, it is claimed.

Mrs Siddle has had a visa for permanent residency in the UK since 2008.

Mr Siddle, 54, an IT software developer from Prudhoe, Northumberland, said: “My head is spinning. It’s just horrendous. This ordeal just turned into our worst nightmare.”

He told BBC Radio Newcastle: “We have heard there is going to be an airlift imminently but they are only allowing British citizens on the plane which means that my wife won’t be allowed to leave.

“My daughter is absolutely in floods of tears because she’s going to be split up from her mum.

“It is a horrendous decision that we have had to make.”

He said his wife will stay with her family in the village of Hongtu, a three-hour drive from Wuhan, until they can make arrangements to get her out of the country.

She told The Guardian: “This is a very difficult time for us because my daughter is just nine years old and I don’t want to put her at risk staying here for a long time.

“But anything that can help my daughter get away we will try, so we made a decision that Jeff and Jasmine will go.

“I want to be with my family and look after them, especially my daughter, because I don’t know how to tell my daughter, you have to go without mum.”

The FCO has reportedly said it would make a note on its file that Mrs Siddle is the mother of a British child, but could make no guarantees about her evacuation.

China does not recognise dual nationality, and any citizen who wants a passport from another country has to give up their Chinese one.

A Downing Street spokesman said: “The Foreign Office is urgently exploring options for British nationals to leave Hubei province.

(Image: KIMIMASA MAYAMA/EPA-EFE/REX)

“Details are being finalised, and the FCO will confirm these as soon as they can.”

An FCO spokesman told Daily Star Online: “The safety of British nationals is our top priority and we have been in close contact with British nationals and their family members who might need help.

"Our priority is to keep British nationals and their family members together and have urgently raised this with the Chinese authorities.”

Up to 200 Brits are expected to be flown back from Wuhan, the centre of the deadly outbreak, tomorrow.

The Department of Health had previously said seemingly well people could go home and “self-isolate” to limit the spread of the infection.

But Matt Hancock, the Health Secretary, wants everyone being flown back from the virus-hit parts of China to be housed in a secure facility for 14 days.

Japan and the US have already airlifted hundreds of their own citizens from the city – with the death toll now at 132.

Confirmed cases of the virus rose to nearly 6,000 this morning, overtaking the 5,327 confirmed cases of SARS during the 2002-2003 outbreak which killed more than 750 people.