CLOSE

Buy Photo Licking Memorial Health Systems President and CEO Rob Montagnese (left) presents former LMH board member Jack Crockford (middle) with the Robert McGaughy Honorary Ambassador Award for service to LMHS at Tuesday's LMH breakfast. McGaughy is on the right. (Photo: Kent Mallett/The Advocate)

NEWARK – Licking Countians should be concerned about the coronavirus, but find comfort in preventive steps being taken in the United States and processes put in place at Licking Memorial Hospital.

Licking Memorial Hospital president and CEO Rob Montagnese and Jeanne Emmons, the LMH director of infection prevention, discussed the deadly virus at Tuesday's LMH corporate breakfast.

"Anytime anything happens anywhere in the world that has the potential for risk, we monitor it very closely," Montagnese said. "But we're not overly concerned at this point because the U.S., as a whole, has had an appropriate response and we have prepared.

"As long as we maintain a really strong infection prevention program, that gives us comfort that we are prepared and can deal with these issues as they arise. We don't want people to be alarmed. We're prepared, but we're also monitoring to make sure we're up to date with what is going on throughout the world."

Emmons said screenings at U.S. airports have been one method of limiting the spread of the virus into the United States.

"We have learned a lot through the years on how to control the infections coming into the country," Emmons said. "We've only had 12 cases of the coronavirus in the United States, and that has all been acquired through travel to China."

The virus has killed more than 1,000 people in China, where more than 42,000 have been infected. The Centers for Disease Control recommends travelers avoid all nonessential travel to China.

Some person-to-person spread of the virus outside China has been detected, according to the CDC. The United States reported the first confirmed instance of person-to-person spread with the virus on Jan. 30.

Emmons said she has a link with the CDC through the Ohio Department of Health, joining in daily calls so everyone receives a similar message about the spreading virus.

"Coronavirus is a very common virus," Emmons said. "It actually causes the common cold. This coronavirus is a novel virus, which means it's a new coronavirus.

"Viruses can change. The reason it's a concern is it's never circulated in our community or in the world, so we have no immunity to it. So, that's a concern for us in the infection prevention world."

Emmons said a U.S. citizen died from the virus, but he acquired it in China. The symptoms are similar to the flu, including fever, cough and shortness of breath, she said.

LMH, which asks patients about their recent travel destinations, now asks specifically about travel to and from China, Emmons said.

"We see a lot of people with these respiratory viruses," Emmons said. "And then if there's any travel to China, we would use special precautions. We have looked at our processes and we do drills. We're very confident that we could handle a patient if we would get one that would be suspect for coronavirus."

Montagnese also gave his annual update of the previous year's accomplishments and future direction of the hospital and healthcare in the community.

In 2019, outpatient and urgent care visits increased slightly, while emergency room visits decreased slightly. There were 261,361 outpatient visits last year, compared to 260,662 in 2018.

Montagnese said one positive change in medicine has been the general population becoming more aware of its own healthcare needs.

We're seeing patients become much more proactive in their approach to their own health," Montagnese said. "I think that has improved both their ability to maintain their health and actually help their providers.

"With all the technology that's out there, there's going to be more self-awareness and more individual patient oversight of their own health, and I think that's a positive."

kmallett@newarkadvocate.com

740-328-8545

Twitter: @kmallett1958

By The Numbers

Following are some of the LMH statistics for 2019, followed by the 2018 numbers in parenthesis.

Inpatient admissions, observations: 13,538 (13,665).

Inpatient psych/detox: 429 (575).

Patient days: 30,181 (30,818).

Avg. length of stay, adults, pediatrics: 3.39 days (3.37 days).

Outpatients: 261,361 (260,662).

Emergency room visits: 51,416 (52,879).

Urgent care visits: 42,962 (42,471).

Deliveries: 980 (1,033).

Read or Share this story: https://www.newarkadvocate.com/story/news/2020/02/11/lmh-officials-public-should-have-concern-not-alarm-coronavirus/4722394002/