As Chinese authorities restrict travel out of Wuhan, the epicentre of a new coronavirus that has caused the deaths of at least 17 people and spread to other countries, health officials say they wouldn’t be surprised to see a small number of cases turn up in B.C.

However, they do believe the province’s health system is well-equipped to identify and contain any instances of the virus, which causes respiratory illnesses such as pneumonia, that do appear.

“I think we’re very sensitive to coronaviruses in Canada, having lived through the experience that we did with SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome), and I think our health-care system and our public health system has come a long way since then,” said Dr. Bonnie Henry, B.C.’s provincial health officer. “We’ve been highly vigilant for the last little while, we’re increasing awareness. I am confident that our health-care systems can deal with importation of a few cases of this.”

While the virus has been found in parts of China outside of Wuhan, Japan, Thailand, Taiwan, South Korea and the U.S., there have been no confirmed cases of the virus in Canada and the risk to Canadians is low.

There are people who have been investigated and ruled out as having the new coronavirus, including a handful in B.C., according to Dr. Danuta Skowronski, who leads the B.C. Centre for Disease Control’s influenza and emerging respiratory pathogens team.

“It is a test of our surveillance protocol that we should have cases under investigation,” said Skowronski. “It shows that the surveillance system is working.”

Three airports in Canada, including Vancouver’s, have added messaging to arrivals screens reminding travellers from Wuhan to tell a border service officer if they have flu-like symptoms.

A health question was also added to electronic kiosks, and those who have visited Wuhan will be subject to closer screening by border-services officers. Those with flu-like symptoms will be referred to a quarantine officer and then taken to Richmond Hospital for assessment, while others will receive information packages.

Henry said she hasn’t been notified about anyone from Vancouver’s airport who has been sent for further assessment.

There are no plans at the moment to step up security, such as using thermal screening, although there is the ability to do so if necessary.

“It’s questionable the value of thermal imaging at the airport. People may or may not have a fever at the time they come to the airport, so in some ways it’s false security,” said Henry.

In local hospitals and clinics, doctors are asking people who show signs of respiratory illnesses about their travel history. If there is a suspicion that someone might be infected, a new diagnostic test — a nasal swab — was introduced this week, and was developed based on the genetic sequence of the virus. A person can be ruled out as having a coronavirus within a few hours.

“Being able to do a test and say, ‘Nope, this person does not have coronavirus,’ is really, really helpful,” said Henry, adding that there was no such test at the time of the SARS outbreak in 2003.

Behind the scenes, Skowronski said a lot of work is being done to develop guidelines for infection control, detail public-health measures and fine-tuning existing protocols.

“In the eventuality of our identifying a case imported into British Columbia, we want to be able to provide those clinicians, the medical-health officers and the patients themselves with clear guidance on how such individuals should be handled,” Skowronski said, emphasizing that early identification and containment are key.

Both Henry and Skowronski said China’s decision to restrict travel from Wuhan by shutting down train stations, airports, subways, ferries and buses is a welcome measure.

“For me, that signals that the Chinese government is really taking this seriously and is doing everything in their power to try and control and contain this, and try to protect not only the rest of their country, but it also protects the rest of us as well,” Henry said.

Local authorities will take direction about further actions from the Public Health Agency of Canada, which is continuing to monitor the situation, according to a statement.

On Wednesday, an emergency committee of the World Health Organization met to determine whether the virus is an international health emergency. Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the organization’s director-general, said they need more information before making that decision and the committee is meeting again Thursday.

“The decision about whether or not to declare a public health emergency of international concern is one I take extremely seriously, and one I’m only prepared to make with appropriate consideration of all of the evidence,” Ghebreyesus told reporters.

jensaltman@postmedia.com

twitter.com/jensaltman

ticrawford@postmedia.com

twitter.com/tiffycrawford13