The third patient to be diagnosed with coronavirus in the UK is reportedly being treated at a hospital in London.

Health officials confirmed that a third case of the virus had been discovered in the UK shortly after 1pm today.

The patient, who was in an Asian country when they caught coronavirus - but not mainland China, is thought to have been diagnosed in Brighton.

They are being transferred to London, where there are infectious diseases units at Guy's and St Thomas' and the Royal Free hospitals.

In a statement, Chief Medical Officer Professor Chris Whitty said: "The patient is being transferred to a specialist NHS centre, and we are using robust infection control measures to prevent any possible further spread of the virus.

"The NHS is well prepared to manage these cases and we are now working quickly to identify any contacts the patient has had."

Prof Whitty did not say whether it was caught directly from someone who had been in Wuhan, the centre of the outbreak.

The University of Sussex, which has a large campus on the outskirts of Brighton, said in a statement the new case was not a student or member of staff from the university.

For the latest updates on the outbreak, follow our coronavirus live blog here.

Last week, the first two cases of coronavirus were confirmed in the UK.

The two patients, who are members of the same family, are being treated at the Royal Victoria Infirmary infectious diseases centre in Newcastle upon Tyne.

In Wirral, more than 80 UK citizens and family members, who were the first to be quarantined at Arrow Park Hospital on their return from Wuhan, have been told they can leave next Thursday.

The Foreign Office in the UK has advised Britons in all of mainland China to leave the country if they are able to.

The global death toll from coronavirus has risen to 565, with the number of confirmed cases rising to 28,273.

Around 260 cases, and two deaths, have been recorded outside China.

Follow us on Twitter and Facebook for the latest news. We are also on Instagram .

If you are on the go, the M.E.N. app helps bring you closer to the latest news where you live. Available on iPhone and Android , the app can be tailor-made to bring you the latest on what matters to you.

Breaking news, the latest on your football club, the pick of the week’s events and the latest travel - you can tailor the app to suit you.