The Chinese embassy in Britain has expressed concern over discrimination and violence targeting Chinese students and immigrants following the global spread of the Wuhan virus.

Two cases of the virus were confirmed in Britain on Friday. Both patients, one a University of York student, were from the same family.

The embassy said yesterday that since the first case in the country, insults, discrimination or even violence targeting mainland students and immigrants have occurred in some regions.

It has expressed concern to the British government and police and requested they protect the safety and legal rights of Chinese nationals.

The embassy also reminded Chinese nationals in the country that they should "safeguard their own safety and stay alert, and avoid having quarrels and physical conflict with others."

If they encounter violent behavior, they should report to police immediately.

If such situations happened to them on campus or in a workplace, they should inform the school or company management.

The embassy's statement came after a masked mainland female postgraduate student was harassed on a street in Sheffield while she was walking alone at the end of last month, with people questioning her over why she had to wear a mask.

The Sheffield Chinese Community Centre said she did not want to press charges and believed the incident was caused by people not understanding the situation. Earlier, South Korean media reported that some restaurants in Seoul and Jeju Island had put up a "no Chinese allowed" sign. Shops said locals and tourists from other countries felt uncomfortable dining in the same place as Chinese.

A food delivery workers union in South Korea also asked to be excused from making deliveries to areas with a large Chinese population.

Similar signs barring Chinese from restaurants were also seen in Thailand. A restaurant in the northern province of Chiang Mai was seen to put up a notice: "We have to apologize for all Chainese consumer [sic] at the moment. We can't serve you because of coronavirus problem. Thank you for understanding," with "and foreign" added as an afterthought.

A taxi driver in Thailand also told reporters he would avoid eye contact and drive by when Chinese tourists hail his cab.

Australian media reported that a mainland student managed to pull off a bluff that he had departed from Hong Kong in an attempt to get into the country.

That came after Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced a ban on foreign travelers who have left or passed through the mainland from entering Australiathat went into effect from Saturday.

The mainland student attending the University of Queensland landed at Brisbane Airport at 11.45pm on Saturday after the ban came into effect. He then changed the place of departure on the incoming passenger card from the mainland to Hong Kong, and was let in.