It has been nothing short of being caught in a real nightmare for those living within the Chinese borders. Since the outbreak of the fatal and highly contagious Novel Coronavirus infection in mainland China, the country has been busy counting casualties.

As China continues to work through this nightmare, India also reached out to its people stranded in the infection epicentre, Wuhan. While an estimated 55,000 NRIs and Indian nationals live in China, the Indian government recently managed to successfully evacuate 640 citizens from Wuhan.

© BCCL

The risky evacuation mission was carried out by 68 highly dedicated Air India crew consisting of eight pilots, 30 cabin crew and 10 commercial staff, who risked their lives not once but twice in airlifting stranded citizens on January 31 and again on February 1.



Air India captain Amitabh Singh who was at the helm of the first mission as the director of operations at Air India, shared his first-hand experience about the task in an interview with Quartz India and said, “When we landed, the entire region was deathly quiet. Roads and buildings were well-lit, but there weren’t any humans around. It was eerie.”

© Twitter

Though this wasn’t the first time Singh or Air India was carrying out an evacuation mission, he admits that this rescue-op was different. He recalled the events and said, “The Wuhan evacuation was different. Here, we went to the epicentre of an epidemic, which would require staff to attend to patients who might have been infected.”



However, with the support of both Air India and government doctors who explained the dos and don'ts to the crew, Singh and his team successfully carried out the mission.

Talking about the apocalypse-like feel of the airport, Captain Kamal Mohan said, "the streets were lit but there weren't any humans or vehicles. An airport blanketed in darkness with all airplanes locked up. It was like an apocalypse." He further added that beholding the sight of Wuhan did feel "frightening".

© Twitter

However, for all of these daredevils, the sighs of relief and happy smiles of those evacuated made it all worth it. Talking about the same Singh said, “When they came on board they obviously looked scared, tired, and worried. However, after they processed that they are on their way back home, there was a big sigh of relief. We could see smiles on their faces. When we took off, there was euphoric clapping.”



Naturally, the government took note of their generous service during a time of crisis and decided to express its gratitude. Therefore on February 17, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri gave out Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s letters of appreciation to all the 68 Air India who made the evacuation mission a success, as per the reports.

© Twitter

Puri, in his interview with Bloomberg, said, “We are proud of the commitment shown by the Air India team to bring home their countrymen despite the trying conditions in Wuhan.”



Kudos to these good-doers who decided to risk their well-being and land themselves in the middle of an epidemic to help those in need. It takes a lot of courage to put others’ needs and safety before yours during moments of such crisis.

But not only did these guys do it without a second thought, they also ensured that the official order was carried out without a glitch and fellow Indians were brought back to the safety of their motherland.

© Twitter

Reportedly, the Indian government is now planning to rescue Pakistani students from Wuhan, along with many more Indians very soon.



Apart from evacuating people, India will also be delivering a large consignment of medical supplies to help the casualties in China. And guess what, Singh and his team are more than happy to do it all, all over again.

Shop The Story

Photo: © Twitter (Main Image)