by Daisy Luther

TheOrganicPrepper.com

February 13, 2020

Yesterday, a shocking spike in the increase of novel coronavirus cases was reported. Before that, previous days’ numbers had made it seem as though the cases were beginning to level off, which would have meant the infection was being contained. Unfortunately, that part wasn’t accurate.

Then came yesterday, with approximately fifteen thousand new cases diagnosed. Before this number had regularly been about 2000 new cases per day.

What the heck?

It turns out that this is a bad news/good news situation.

It’s certainly awful to know that there were that many people diagnosed with a potentially deadly illness in one day. That’s the bad part.

But the good news is that the diagnostic criteria has changed, making it easier, faster, and less expensive for cases to be confirmed. And this gives us a much better look at what the world is actually dealing with in regard to the virus, newly named Covid-19.

Why the sudden increase?

For those of us who have been saying from the very beginning that the numbers from China didn’t add up, our fears have been confirmed. The sharp uptick strongly suggests many people who were ill were never confirmed as having Covid-19. Obviously, this lack of diagnoses would also mean that the death tolls we were given were way too low. Zero Hedge also noted that the Chinese government has been far less than forthcoming up to this point, still not allowing the CDC on the ground to aid in containment efforts.

Previously, the only way to get a confirmed diagnosis was to be administered a nucleic acid test. The tests took several days to return results, and they weren’t always accurate. Several people who died of the virus had four or five negative tests preceding their eventual diagnoses, including Dr. Li, the whistleblower who brought this to the world’s attention before succumbing to the virus himself. The nucleic acid test only returns positive results in the later stages of the illness.

The new diagnostic criteria is quick: all it takes is a CT scan of the patient’s lungs looking for certain visible symptoms.

…officials in Hubei now seem to be including infections diagnosed by using lung scans of symptomatic patients. This shortcut will help get more patients into needed care, provincial officials said. Adding them to the count could make it easier for the authorities to decide how to allocate resources and assess treatment options. (source)

The Rest…HERE