"For anyone other than Australians citizens, Australian residents, dependents, legal guardians or spouses, then you'll not be permitted entry into Australia"

Scott Morrison announced that all non-citizens that have been in mainland China will be immediately barred from entering Australia.

The unprecedented measures were announced after Morrison met with Australia’s chief medical officers to discuss the spread of Coronavirus. Australian citizens, permanent residents and members of their immediate families will be exempt from the ban but will be asked to self-isolate for 14 days from their date of departure from China.

Let's get this straight: no unmarried partners, extended family members, or people with visas, work, study, homes, support systems, or lives in Australia? Great decision. I'm sure that'll have no serious repercussions on our economy, society & relationship w/ China whatsoever. https://t.co/F9bTY37htV — Kara Schlegl (@karaschlegl) February 1, 2020

They are similar measures to those recently put in place by the U.S government. But global health officials have advised against such measures, with the head of the World Health Organisation saying that “Travel restrictions can cause more harm than good by hindering info-sharing, medical supply chains and harming economies.”

As recently as yesterday the WHO *did not* recommend any travel restrictions and cautioned govt’s from acting in ways that promote stigma and discrimination pic.twitter.com/XnMMtDtTI2 — Joshua Badge (@joshuabadge) February 1, 2020

In addition to the ban, Morrison announced that advanced screening measures will be put in place at airports. Half a million face masks will be supplied to people coming off flights, along with thermometers. The announcement of the ban has been criticised by some, with arguments the response may be overblown.

We have 12 cases. 0.09% of global detected cases. What nonsense. And if you exempt permanent residents and citizens what is the damn point? pic.twitter.com/ifQWlW9PZK — Tim Lyons (@Picketer) February 1, 2020

And some wondering if the same measures would be put in place if the Coronavirus stemmed from somewhere else.

hands up if you believe morrison would still have closed the border if the coronavirus had sparked in the US — Scott Ludlam (@Scottludlam) February 1, 2020

There are concerns that the reaction to the Coronavirus will lead to an increase in xenophobia and racism. Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk, who urged the Government to stop all flights from China, also had to urge people to stay respectful. She asked people not to discriminate against the Chinese community, as people have begun reporting harassment based on fear and misinformation. Some twitter users also report already feeling the impact.

Today a patient made jokes about not shaking my hand because of #coronavirus. In front of my team. I have not left Australia. This is not sensible public health precautions. This is #racism. https://t.co/y8Odj68ovL — Rhea Liang (@LiangRhea) January 30, 2020

I find myself washing my hands more & not sharing food because I worry that if I catch even a cold, people will assume it’s the coronavirus. Yes, I am more concerned about racism than catching the actual coronavirus. — Nancy Wang Yuen (@nancywyuen) February 1, 2020

The ban will be reviewed in two weeks.