Two Iowans who returned recently from China are undergoing testing for novel coronavirus, according to a Wednesday afternoon news release from the Iowa Department of Public Health.

The individuals are under voluntary home confinement. Results from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are not expected for several days.

IDPH Medical Director and State Epidemiologist Dr. Caitlin Pedati said in a Facebook livestream that the IDPH is not providing any information about the patients or their locations, including the airport they used to fly in and out of the state.

She said Iowa has not yet had a case of novel coronavirus, but it is possible.

"The overall risk from novel coronavirus in the U.S. and here in Iowa does continue to remain low," she said.

Pedati said the CDC is advising people not to travel to China, but that general public in the U.S. does not need to wear a face mask. She also cautioned against stereotyping due to the disease.

"Do not assume anyone of Asian descent would necessarily be more likely to have the novel coronavirus," she said.

She said people traveling from China are more likely to have the flu than the novel coronavirus.

"This is peak respiratory virus season and like many of us, travelers coming from China are more likely to have symptoms related to a common virus such as flu, so it’s possible that we’ll be detecting those people because we’re monitoring them more closely," she said.

The Iowa Department of Public Health has implemented national recommendations for the surveillance of coronavirus to identify and test individuals who may carry the virus.

Anyone who has traveled to China in the last 14 days and becomes ill is advised to contact a medical professional. Pedati said doctors should report those visits to the IDPH.

She urged Iowans to stay home if they are sick and to practice good respiratory health habits such as covering a cough.

► More last week: Iowa schools, businesses take action as Wuhan coronavirus outbreak escalate

And more from our partners at USA TODAY:

Katie Akin is a politics reporter for the Register. Reach her at kakin@registermedia.com or at 515-284-8041. Follow her on Twitter at @katie_akin.

Your subscription makes work like this possible. Subscribe today at DesMoinesRegister.com/Deal.

Read or Share this story: https://www.desmoinesregister.com/story/news/health/2020/02/05/two-iowans-tested-for-coronavirus-after-china-visit/4670869002/