Carnival Cruise Line's Carnival Breeze. More

Andy Newman/Carnival Cruise Lines via Getty Images

More than 79,500 people have contracted the coronavirus, and more than 2,600 people have died from it.

Carnival Cruise Line, Royal Caribbean International, and Norwegian Cruise Line are banning people who have been to mainland China, Hong Kong, or Macau in the weeks before a cruise from sailing on their ships.

Passengers may also receive health screenings before or during their cruise.

Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.

The Wuhan coronavirus has rocked the cruise industry, as some passengers have had their cruises canceled, while others have been stranded or quarantined on board.

The world's three biggest cruise lines are taking precautions to protect passengers and crew members from the virus, which has killed more than 2,600 people and infected more than 79,500.

These are the steps Carnival Cruise Line, Royal Caribbean International, and Norwegian Cruise Line are taking in response to the coronavirus.

This story has been updated to reflect that the coronavirus has now spread to more than 79,500 people and killed over 2,600, up from roughly 494 and 24,000.

Carnival

Carnival Victory cruise ship More





Alan Diaz/Associated Press

"Protecting the health and safety of our guests and crew is our top priority," a Carnival representative said.

Customers who have been in mainland China, Hong Kong, or Macau in the two weeks prior to their cruise will not be allowed to board. Carnival has also introduced "enhanced screening, prevention, and control measures for our ships, guests, and crew," but the Carnival representative did not offer further detail about them.

Royal Caribbean

Royal Caribbean Harmony of the Seas More





Royal Caribbean

Royal Caribbean canceled all cruises in China and Hong Kong through the end of February.

For all other cruises, anyone who meets any of the following criteria will not be allowed to board:

Has been in mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, Iran, South Korea, Lombardy, or Veneto in the 15 days prior to their cruise.

Has come within six feet of someone who has been to China, Hong Kong, Macau, Iran, South Korea, Lombardy, or Veneto in the last 15 days.

Reports feeling ill or shows symptoms that resemble the flu.

Customers in that group will have their trip refunded.

The following groups will be required to receive health screenings:

People who have been in Japan, Singapore, Thailand, or Italy (aside from Lombardy and Veneto) in the 15 days before their cruise.

People who may have been within six feet of anyone who has been to mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, Iran, South Korea, Japan, Singapore, Thailand, or Italy in the last 15 days.

If a guest is found to have a fever or low blood oximetry, they will not be allowed to board the ship.

"These steps are intentionally conservative," a Royal Caribbean representative said. "We apologize for the inconvenience created by these precautionary measures."

Norwegian

Norwegian Cruise Line Norwegian Gem More





Norwegian Cruise Line

Norwegian Cruise Line has canceled all of its cruises in Asia through September.