Reports from Italy confirmed 16 new cases of the COVID-19 virus on Friday, with 14 diagnosed in the northern Lombardy region on Feb. 21. Six of the people are the first discovered cases who have been infected via local transmission, Reuters reports.

Authorities encouraged the residents of Codogno and Castiglione d’Adda, in north Italy, to stay home and avoid social interactions to minimize the spread of the virus.

Many of the 14 new cases represented the first infections in Italy acquired through secondary contagion. The cluster in the Lombardy region was located in a handful of tiny towns around Lodi, said the Lombardy regional health chief Giulio Gallera.

The first patient, a 38-year-old-man, became sick and had the coronavirus symptoms after he met a friend who had recently come back from China, according to Gallera. The patient is now transferred to the intensive care unit.

The wife of the first patient and one of his friends were also infected. None of the three had traveled to China. Three patients at the hospital in Codogno where he went with flu-like symptoms on Feb. 18 also have infections, as do five nurses and doctors.

Local officials were monitoring all those who had been in contact with the infected patients. They have identified most of the contacts of the new patients and tested 100 people for the virus.

Another three people, who frequented the same cafe in the Lombardy region, also tested positive Friday in addition to the eight people at Codogno hospital, Gallera said.

The only three infected people in Italy before Friday were two Chinese tourists who came back from Wuhan, the center of the outbreak of the virus, in January; and an Italian who was among the 56 evacuees from Wuhan who tested positive for the virus and a week later was hospitalized.

In response to the emerging cluster, the mayor of Codogno ordered schools, public buildings, restaurants and coffee shops closed. The Italian health ministry ordered anyone who came into direct contact with the first three people who tested positive to be quarantined for 14 days.

Local officials in another town, Casalpusterlengo, ordered local schools closed through Tuesday. A third town where the infected couple live, Castiglione d’Adda, said its libraries, public offices, gyms, and garbage depots would be closed as a health precaution.

Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said to reporters that his government had initiated new measurements such as obligatory quarantine for all those people who have been in contact with the infected cases. He urged the people who had been in the areas with regards to potential exposure to a high-risk for human-to-human transmission during the last two weeks not to go out.

Other Cases

Two new deaths from the COVID-19 disease took place in Iran, authorities said on Feb. 21.

Iranian authorities reported the first cases of the disease, which is caused by a new coronavirus, on Thursday. In an update soon after, they said the first two patients in the country both died.

South Korean health officials confirmed 100 new cases of the novel coronavirus on Feb. 21, bringing the national total to 204.

The country has the largest number of cases outside of China besides the cluster from the Diamond Princess cruise ship, which is docked in Japan.

The new cases mark the biggest daily jump in infection cases in a single day since South Korea reported its first case on Jan. 20.

Japan’s health minister said the last cruise ship passengers who tested negative for a new virus will leave the Diamond Princess on Friday after a much-criticized quarantine of the vessel ended.

The ship docked at a Yokohama port has the most COVID-19 cases outside of China, with 634 confirmed by late Thursday. Two former 80-year-old passengers have died.

Epoch Times staff contributed to this report.