PUTRAJAYA: The government will hold discussions with China on bringing back the 78 Malaysians quarantined in Wuhan.

Prime Minister Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad (pix) said Foreign Minister Saifuddin Abdullah will lead the discussions.

“We will discuss with China to allow Malaysians who are not ill to return but they will be checked upon return for the coronavirus.

“Those who have been in Wuhan for a long time will be quarantined for 14 days before being allowed home,“ he said at a press conference today

Mahathir said the airlift of the Malaysians will begin once the Chinese government gives its permission.

He said the aircraft will be used to send items such as gloves, mask and food to Wuhan as they are running low.

The prime minster said the food supply in Wuhan is much diminished and in some instances some only have food supply for four days.

He added that up to today seven Chinese tourists here have been confirmed to have the virus.

The three latest cases involve a four-year-old child being treated at the isolation ward of Sultanah Maliha Hospital, Langkawi; a 52-year-old man being treated at the isolation ward of Sultanah Aminah Hospital in Johor Baru and a woman.

The Prime Minister’s Department had announced that Chinese nationals from Hubei province, including its capital Wuhan, are temporarily barred from entering Malaysia with immediate effect, regardless of visa status.

The Prime Minister said there has been the spread of fake news that non-Muslim tourists cannot visit mosques or other places especially those from China because they spread the virus.

“This is not the government’s policy and those spreading this news are being irresponsible.

“The government will take action against those spreading such fake news to scare the people while at the same time attempting to cause racial disharmony,“ Mahathir said, adding the government believes in freedom of the press but it does not mean the press should agitate people.

“Press freedom will be maintained but spreading fake news and telling lies in order to cause problems will not be tolerated and we will take action against them,“ he said.

The Malaysian Communication and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) said a man was detained on Tuesday in connection with spreading false or fake news regarding the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).