Coronavirus fears as KNH admits student

A Kenyan who flew from China yesterday has been admitted in an isolation ward at Kenyatta National Hospital in the first suspected case of coronavirus in the country. According to the Ministry of Health, the passenger arrived at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) from Guangzhou, China, and after the screening, was found to have a fever. He is said to have left China's Wuhan City - the epicentre of the coronavirus epidemic that has so far killed more than 100 people, on January 20.

SEE ALSO :Tourism earns Kenya Sh163 billion

According to the ministry, the patient was first put under isolation at JKIA before being moved to KNH's Infectious Disease Unit. Coronavirus tests are currently being conducted at the National Influenza Centre. "The suspected case remains in the isolation facility at KNH while investigations and laboratory tests are undertaken," said the ministry in a statement read by outgoing CS Sicily Kariuki.

Stepping up measures

This comes as Kenya joined other countries across the world in stepping up measures to stem the spread of the disease that has so far recorded more than 4,500 infections.

For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper. Subscribe Now »

Kenya Airways confirmed that the passenger was quarantined as a precautionary measure and that the decision was reached by health authorities stationed at JKIA. The passenger - who is believed to be a student - had been cleared to travel by the China port health authorities at the Guangzhou Airport.

SEE ALSO :Flyers out on a limb as neglect, impunity reign at key airports

"The procedure at the airport of departure is that all passengers are required to undergo quarantine screening by the health authorities before being cleared to board any aircraft," said KQ in a statement. The airline assured its passengers that they were safe. Meanwhile, work at Karimenu 2 dam in Gatundu North, Kiambu County, was temporarily interrupted after three Chinese workers said to have just flown into the country arrived at the site. Workers demanded that the three be screened for coronavirus before they were allowed to work. Following the incident, the three were put on surveillance even as county health officials quickly organised a coronavirus sensitisation forum for the workers. [Reporting by Paul Thoronjo, Fidelis Kabunyi and David Njaaga]

SEE ALSO :Another Chinese put in isolation over virus scare

Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE.