Should we encourage people who arrive in Canada from the Hubei province to self-isolate for two weeks? Should you work from home if you recently visited China? What about using the face masks that some are now wearing in the streets of Toronto-area cities?

Right now, public health officials in Canada have not called for these steps to be taken. In fact, they’ve even said that the masks are of limited benefit.

But it’s only reasonable for some members of the public to start asking these questions, given the news reports coming from China that a population almost twice the size of Canada is now under quarantine and the infection rate and death toll continues to rise over there all while cases start to appear here.

Reasonable indeed. And here’s what it’s not: racist.

Someone needs to tell that to the heads of a school board that encompasses several cities north of Toronto, after they issued a condescending letter to parents chastising them for their concerns.

“While the virus can be traced to a province in China, we have to be cautious that this not be seen as a Chinese virus,” writes Juanita Nathan, a trustee who is chair of the York Region District School Board, and Louise Sirisko, director of education, in a joint letter. “Those who are afflicted or are potential transmitters are not just people of Chinese origin.”

Their letter encourages students to practice good hygiene and says students “should not wear medical masks.” What in part prompted these stern messages was apparently an online petition by parents in the region that’s been gaining steam with almost 10,000 signatures.

The articulate petition lays out the current situation with the virus and writes that parents are aware that many people in their community, which has a sizeable Chinese population, travelled to China for the lunar new year and are now returning.

“It will definitely bring the virus into our country, and makes the next 2-4 weeks the peak time of this infectious disease transmission,” reads the petition, which lists Erjun Li as the organizer.

The petition makes four requests: 1) That students identify themselves to the school if they or their immediate family have just come back from China, 2) That the school requests recent travellers to China self-quarantine for a minimum of 17 days, 3) That students be allowed to wear masks in schools, 4) That public health guidelines be strictly followed.

The text contains no racial animus and many of the names of those people signing the petition and leaving comments indicate that they are Chinese or of Asian descent.

Passengers wear face masks to protect against the spread of the Coronavirus as they arrive on a flight from Asia at Los Angeles International Airport, California, on January 29, 2020. - A new virus that has killed more than one hundred people, infected thousands and has already reached the US could mutate and spread, China warned, as authorities urged people to steer clear of Wuhan, the city at the heart of the outbreak. (Photo by Mark RALSTON / AFP) MARK RALSTON /AFP via Getty Images

FILE PHOTO: Members of the Thai Airways crew prepare themselves before disinfecting the cabin of an aircraft of the national carrier during a procedure to prevent the spread of the coronavirus at Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi International Airport, Thailand, January 28. REUTERS/Athit Perawongmetha/File Photo ORG XMIT: FW1 Athit Perawongmetha /REUTERS

A passenger wears a mask as she waits at passport control in Bole International Airport in Addis Ababa, on January 30, 2020, following an outbreak of coronavirus in China. - As of January 30, some 7,700 cases have been confirmed in China, its country of origin, with at least 170 fatalities. The virus has spread from the city of Wuhan across China to more than 15 countries, with about 60 cases in Asia, Europe, North America and, most recently, the Middle East. (Photo by Michael Tewelde / AFP) MICHAEL TEWELDE /AFP via Getty Images

BEIJING, CHINA - JANUARY 30: Passengers wear protective masks as they walk he their luggagein the arrivals area at Beijing Capital Airport on January 30, 2020 in Beijing, China. The number of cases of a deadly new coronavirus rose to over 7000 in mainland China Thursday as the country continued to lock down the city of Wuhan in an effort to contain the spread of the pneumonia-like disease which medicals experts have confirmed can be passed from human to human. In an unprecedented move, Chinese authorities put travel restrictions on the city which is the epicentre of the virus and neighbouring municipalities affecting tens of millions of people. The number of those who have died from the virus in China climbed to over 170 on Thursday, mostly in Hubei province, and cases have been reported in other countries including the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, South Korea, and France. The World Health Organization has warned all governments to be on alert, and its emergency committee is to meet later on Thursday to decide whether to declare a global health emergency. Kevin Frayer /Getty Images

BEIJING, CHINA - JANUARY 30: Foreign tourists walk in the arrivals area at Beijing Capital Airport on January 30, 2020 in Beijing, China. The number of cases of a deadly new coronavirus rose to over 7000 in mainland China Thursday as the country continued to lock down the city of Wuhan in an effort to contain the spread of the pneumonia-like disease which medicals experts have confirmed can be passed from human to human. In an unprecedented move, Chinese authorities put travel restrictions on the city which is the epicentre of the virus and neighbouring municipalities affecting tens of millions of people. The number of those who have died from the virus in China climbed to over 170 on Thursday, mostly in Hubei province, and cases have been reported in other countries including the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, South Korea, and France. The World Health Organization has warned all governments to be on alert, and its emergency committee is to meet later on Thursday to decide whether to declare a global health emergency. Kevin Frayer /Getty Images

BEIJING, CHINA - JANUARY 30: Passengers wear protective masks as they walk he their luggagein the arrivals area at Beijing Capital Airport on January 30, 2020 in Beijing, China. The number of cases of a deadly new coronavirus rose to over 7000 in mainland China Thursday as the country continued to lock down the city of Wuhan in an effort to contain the spread of the pneumonia-like disease which medicals experts have confirmed can be passed from human to human. In an unprecedented move, Chinese authorities put travel restrictions on the city which is the epicentre of the virus and neighbouring municipalities affecting tens of millions of people. The number of those who have died from the virus in China climbed to over 170 on Thursday, mostly in Hubei province, and cases have been reported in other countries including the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, South Korea, and France. The World Health Organization has warned all governments to be on alert, and its emergency committee is to meet later on Thursday to decide whether to declare a global health emergency. Kevin Frayer /Getty Images

Customers wear masks as they shop for instant noodles at a supermarket following the outbreak of a new coronavirus, in Hong Kong, China January 30, 2020. REUTERS/Tyrone Siu ORG XMIT: GGGTS07 TYRONE SIU /REUTERS

CP-Web. People wear masks as they wait for the arrivals at the International terminal at Toronto Pearson International Airport in Toronto on Saturday, January 25, 2020. Leaders of Toronto's Chinese community said Wednesday the racist attitudes that led to widespread discrimination against Chinese Canadians during the SARS epidemic are threatening to resurface during the current outbreak of a new coronavirus.THE CANADIAN PRESS/Nathan Denette ORG XMIT: CPT132 Nathan Denette /THE CANADIAN PRESS

People wearing protective facemasks walk out from a Pakistan-based Chinese company in Islamabad on January 30, 2020, after instructions from Pakistani authorities to take preventive measures against the coronavirus. - A virus similar to the SARS pathogen has killed 170 people and spread around the world since emerging in a market in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. (Photo by Aamir QURESHI / AFP) AAMIR QURESHI /AFP via Getty Images

BEIJING, CHINA - JANUARY 30: A man wears a protective mask and goggles as he lines up to check in to a flight at Beijing Capital Airport on January 30, 2020 in Beijing, China. The number of cases of a deadly new coronavirus rose to over 7000 in mainland China Thursday as the country continued to lock down the city of Wuhan in an effort to contain the spread of the pneumonia-like disease which medicals experts have confirmed can be passed from human to human. In an unprecedented move, Chinese authorities put travel restrictions on the city which is the epicentre of the virus and neighbouring municipalities affecting tens of millions of people. The number of those who have died from the virus in China climbed to over 170 on Thursday, mostly in Hubei province, and cases have been reported in other countries including the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, South Korea, and France. The World Health Organization has warned all governments to be on alert, and its emergency committee is to meet later on Thursday to decide whether to declare a global health emergency. Kevin Frayer /Getty Images

BEIJING, CHINA - JANUARY 30: A Chinese worker from Starbucks checks the temperature of a customer at Beijing Capital Airport on January 30, 2020 in Beijing, China. The number of cases of a deadly new coronavirus rose to over 7000 in mainland China Thursday as the country continued to lock down the city of Wuhan in an effort to contain the spread of the pneumonia-like disease which medicals experts have confirmed can be passed from human to human. In an unprecedented move, Chinese authorities put travel restrictions on the city which is the epicentre of the virus and neighbouring municipalities affecting tens of millions of people. The number of those who have died from the virus in China climbed to over 170 on Thursday, mostly in Hubei province, and cases have been reported in other countries including the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, South Korea, and France. The World Health Organization has warned all governments to be on alert, and its emergency committee is to meet later on Thursday to decide whether to declare a global health emergency. Kevin Frayer /Getty Images

BEIJING, CHINA - JANUARY 30: Passengers wear protective masks as they arrive at Beijing Capital Airport on January 30, 2020 in Beijing, China. The number of cases of a deadly new coronavirus rose to over 7000 in mainland China Thursday as the country continued to lock down the city of Wuhan in an effort to contain the spread of the pneumonia-like disease which medicals experts have confirmed can be passed from human to human. In an unprecedented move, Chinese authorities put travel restrictions on the city which is the epicentre of the virus and neighbouring municipalities affecting tens of millions of people. The number of those who have died from the virus in China climbed to over 170 on Thursday, mostly in Hubei province, and cases have been reported in other countries including the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, South Korea, and France. The World Health Organization has warned all governments to be on alert, and its emergency committee is to meet later on Thursday to decide whether to declare a global health emergency. Kevin Frayer /Getty Images

BEIJING, CHINA - JANUARY 30: A man wears a protective mask and goggles as he lines up to check in to a flight at Beijing Capital Airport on January 30, 2020 in Beijing, China. The number of cases of a deadly new coronavirus rose to over 7000 in mainland China Thursday as the country continued to lock down the city of Wuhan in an effort to contain the spread of the pneumonia-like disease which medicals experts have confirmed can be passed from human to human. In an unprecedented move, Chinese authorities put travel restrictions on the city which is the epicentre of the virus and neighbouring municipalities affecting tens of millions of people. The number of those who have died from the virus in China climbed to over 170 on Thursday, mostly in Hubei province, and cases have been reported in other countries including the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, South Korea, and France. The World Health Organization has warned all governments to be on alert, and its emergency committee is to meet later on Thursday to decide whether to declare a global health emergency. Kevin Frayer /Getty Images

Sri Lankan Airlines staff wear masks at Bandaranaike International Airport after Sri Lanka confirmed the first case of coronavirus in the country, in Katunayake, Sri Lanka January 30, 2020. REUTERS/Dinuka Liyanawatte ORG XMIT: GGGCOL06 DINUKA LIYANAWATTE /REUTERS

A security official wears a mask as he stands guard near a thermal scanner at Bandaranaike International Airport after Sri Lanka confirmed the first case of coronavirus in the country, in Katunayake, Sri Lanka January 30, 2020. REUTERS/Dinuka Liyanawatte ORG XMIT: GGGCOL11 DINUKA LIYANAWATTE /REUTERS

Flight passengers wear face masks at a check-in of Chinese airline Air China on January 30, 2020 at the airport in Frankfurt am Main, western Germany. - Germany's flagship carrier Lufthansa said on January 29, 2020 it was cancelling all flights to mainland China until February 9, 2020, as fears mount over the deadly coronavirus. (Photo by Boris Roessler / dpa / AFP) / Germany OUT BORIS ROESSLER /dpa/AFP via Getty Images

*** BESTPIX *** HONG KONG, CHINA - JANUARY 29: A woman carries a baby wearing a protective mask as they exit the arrival hall at Hong Kong High Speed Rail Station on January 29, 2020 in Hong Kong, China. Hong Kong government will deny entry for travellers who has been to Hubei province except for local residents in response to tighten the international travel and border crossing to stop the spread of the virus. Anthony Kwan /Getty Images

A woman gets help to fit her face mask outside Beijing Railway Station as the country is hit by an outbreak of the new coronavirus, in Beijing, China January 30, 2020. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia Rawlins ORG XMIT: CH015 CARLOS GARCIA RAWLINS /REUTERS

People wearing masks walk along a street in Hong Kong on January 30, 2020, as a preventative measure after a virus outbreak which began in the Chinese city of Wuhan. - Long queues outside of pharmacies and panic buying at supermarkets has become commonplace in Hong Kong in recent days as the crowded metropolis panics over the spread of China's new coronavirus. (Photo by DALE DE LA REY / AFP) DALE DE LA REY /AFP via Getty Images

Rick Mazda, environmental attendant scrubs down negative pressure clean room at Humber River Hospital. They are ready if the Coronavirus spreads. Thursday January 7, 2021. Stan Behal/Toronto Sun/Postmedia Network Stan Behal /Stan Behal/Toronto Sun

Passengers wear face masks to protect against the spread of the Coronavirus as they arrive on a flight from Asia at Los Angeles International Airport, California, on January 29, 2020. - A new virus that has killed more than one hundred people, infected thousands and has already reached the US could mutate and spread, China warned, as authorities urged people to steer clear of Wuhan, the city at the heart of the outbreak. (Photo by Mark RALSTON / AFP) MARK RALSTON /AFP via Getty Images



Share: Coronavirus Concerns Tumblr Pinterest Google Plus Reddit LinkedIn Email



“It’s paramount to prevent this vital virus spreading in York Region before it’s too late,” writes Chi Wai Wong. “I urge York Region schools taking stronger actions to protect our children.”

“Please have those [who] travelled to China recently stay at home for at least 2 weeks before they go to school or work,” writes Yuan Xiang.

This is apparently the beginning of some sort of hatefest, according to Nathan and Sirisko. “Situations such as these can regrettably give rise to discrimination based on perceptions, stereotypes and hate,” the letter continues. “Individuals who make assumptions, even with positive intentions of safety, about the risk of others, request or demand quarantine can be seen as demonstrating bias and racism.”

On Tuesday morning investment firm Goldman Sachs sent a memo to their employees doing just what these parents want to see happen at their school board. The firm, according to Reuters, “has instructed staff who have been in mainland China to work from home or be out of the office for 14 days since they were last there, according to an internal notice.”

This reportedly extends to those who have not been to China but have been in close contact with someone who has. Maybe few other companies will follow suit, but it still shows the precautionary measures that are being taken by some in advance of official directives from public health agencies.

There is a whole cadre of activists, politicians and journalists whose entire wheelhouse is seeing every issue through the prism of race. Sometimes they get it right. Not this time, though.

If the parents are right that there will be many students soon returning from China, their concerns are not without merit. Should they be followed? I’m content to leave that decision up to the health experts for now. But even if you consider these requests over-the-top, they’re certainly not “hate”. What a terrible response from these officials.

Public health officials who have been before the cameras in recent days have done a good job of answering any and all questions. They understand people have concerns and at no point lashed out at journalists for their many detailed questions, some of which echoed the concerns these parents have. Parents in York Region would be right to complain to Nathan and Sirisko over this needless smear.

Could a racism problem arise? Perhaps. We know there will always be anonymous morons on social media who say all sorts of rude things online. Let’s ignore them. And if any actual racist incidents do occur, we should condemn them.

But now is not the time to stoke up a false narrative and suppress genuine public health concerns.