Ed Frost sentenced to 11 years in prison in Ravenna auction house theft case

RAVENNA While walking out of Judge Laurie Pittman’s courtroom flanked by Portage County Sheriff’s deputies, Ed Frost ripped his statement to the court in half and threw the pieces on the jury box, where the rest of the jail inmates who had court that day were sitting.

Frost, 30, the final person connected to a theft scheme involving a Portage County family and multiple expensive cars, was sentenced Tuesday to 11 years in prison and must pay back more than $1.8 million that victims say he stole from them. He must also pay a $1,000 fine.

Frost apologized to the victims and said he didn’t fully understand his behavior at times.

"I feel I am moving through life in a kind of fog," Frost said.

Frost’s attorney, Joseph "Randy" Klammer, said Frost plans to appeal his sentence. He said Frost has "issues’ after watching his father shoot his mother when he was 7 years old.

Frost’s father, Bobby Lee Palmer, 48, of Akron, was found guilty of aggravated murder in Stark County Common Pleas Court in 1997 for murdering Jill Frost in Lake Township and was sentenced to at least 23 years in prison, according to Canton Repository news articles at the time. The stories also describe two boys — Frost and a brother — telling Palmer how much they hated him.

Forensic psychiatrist Dr. Farshid Afsarifard testified in court on Tuesday. He interviewed Frost and said Frost was permanently changed from his mother’s death. He said Frost never got the help he needed after the murder and now has several mental disorders.

Frost pleaded guilty to aggravated theft, a second-degree felony, attempted engaging in a pattern of corrupt activity, a fourth-degree felony, passing bad checks, a third-degree felony and attempted bribery, a fourth-degree felony.

Pittman said she felt Frost had failed his potential.

"Everyone tells me how charismatic you are, that you can sell ice cubes to Eskimos," Pittman said, adding she wished Frost had used his talents for good.

Frost was charged in Portage County in connection with a scheme out of MPA Liquidations, which was located at 123 N. Prospect St. in Ravenna. It sold various products at auction out of the former Record-Courier pressroom that spans the block between Hickory Way and North Chestnut Street. Muhammad and Pearl Ashkanani owned the company, according to state records.

Frost is also facing charges in Geauga County. Portage County assistant prosecutor Connie Lewandowski said law enforcement found Frost had similar schemes in other states, including Kansas and Minnesota.

"He is motivated by power, greed and control," Lewandowski said.

The victims didn’t speak in the case, but Lewandowski said Frost has demonstrated no remorse for his crimes and has a long criminal history, including a sex offender conviction and probation violations in Mahoning County. Prosecutors recommended that Frost be sentenced to 14 years in prison.

Frost has been held at the Portage County jail since July on a $500,000 bond.

Prosecutors and police have not released any more specific information about what the alleged scheme involved, what members of the community might have been harmed or who Frost attempted to bribe.

However, in connection with the case, forfeiture specifications were filed for several late-model vehicles including a 2019 Chevy Corvette Grand Sport, a 2019 Chevy Tahoe, a 2017 Jaguar F-Type, a 2015 Nissan GTR, a 2019 Chevy Traverse, a 2013 Dodge Viper, and a 2019 Mercedes Light.

Frost was accused of writing a bad check for more than $1.6 million in connection with the scheme.

Attorneys for the Ashkanani family said Frost was the ringleader of the operation and that he also scammed the Ashkanani family.

Six people in the Ashkanani family have also been arrested and are accused of participating in the same scheme. They have all pleaded guilty to various charges.

Pearl Ashkanani, 45, and Muhammad Ashkanani, 50, also will have to pay $57,410 to the owner of the building for garage and MPA warehouse repairs, and $40,766 to Ray Harner for MPA updates. They were both sentenced to intervention in lieu of conviction and pleaded guilty to defrauding creditors, a fourth-degree felony, obstructing justice, a fifth-degree felony and four counts of receiving stolen property, each a fourth-degree felony.

A son, Jasin Ashkanani, 24, also pleaded guilty to receiving stolen property, a fifth-degree felony. He was sentenced to intervention in lieu of conviction and ordered to pay $24,207 in restitution.

Martha Lovejoy, 65, of Ravenna Township, who is Pearl Ashkanani’s mother, and son Hussein Ashkanani, 20, of Paris Township, pleaded guilty to receiving stolen property, each a fourth-degree felony, with forfeiture specifications for the cars involved, a 2015 Nissan and a 2019 Chevrolet Traverse. They were sentenced in November to intervention in lieu of conviction and the cars were forfeited.

Son Ali Ashkanai pleaded guilty to receiving stolen property, a fourth-degree felony, with a forfeiture specification for a 2017 Jaguar F-type. He was sentenced to intervention in lieu of conviction and ordered to forfeit the car.

The arrests were made after a three-month investigation conducted by the Ravenna Police Department with assistance from the FBI, Ohio State Highway Patrol, Portage County Sheriff’s Office, Portage County Drug Task Force and the Portage County Prosecutor’s Office.