South Australia has recorded its first confirmed cases of the deadly coronavirus after a Chinese couple tested positive to the disease, which has killed more than 250 people.

The couple, both aged 60, arrived in SA from Wuhan, China – the centre of the outbreak – on January 21.

They were on China Southern Airlines Flight CZ663 direct from Guangzhou to Adelaide and authorities are now tracing passengers on that flight. Any passengers experiencing flu-like symptoms should contact 1300 232 272.

A relative the infected couple were visiting has been tested once and found to be negative but is being tested a second time and is in self-imposed isolation.

The infected couple are in a stable condition in separate sealed quarantine rooms in the Royal Adelaide Hospital. Staff treating them wear protective suits when in the rooms.

More than 14,000 people have contracted coronavirus globally and 304 have died.

In SA, 34 people have been tested with two positive results, 15 negative results and 17 results still pending.

SA Health Chief Public Medical Officer Dr Nicola Spurrier said all people on the flight would be contacted if it was confirmed that the couple were infectious while flying.

“We need to make sure we have all the information before we make it publicly available,” she said.

“If we feel they (other people on the flight) are at risk, public health authorities will contact them. We are interviewing relatives to make sure we know where these people have been.”

Horrifying footage from inside chaotic Wuhan hospital Shocking footage has emerged from inside a Wuhan Hospital where staff are treating the coronavirus.

She noted staff at the RAH were also being reminded of strict cleaning, hygiene and waste disposal protocols, amid unconfirmed claims that uncovered bins had been removed from the quarantine section of the hospital.

She said she suspected the number of people being tested in South Australia would continue to climb.

“We have increased pathology testing capacity in South Australia,” she said.

Health and Wellbeing Minister Stephen Wade said he was confident health officials are taking appropriate action and precautions, and that the government is working with tourism, education and trade partners to deal with fallout from the crisis.

On Saturday, Prime Minster Scott Morrison announced all foreigners who have recently travelled through China would be banned from entering Australia.

media_camera Medical workers in protective suits move a coronavirus patient into an isolation ward at the Second People's Hospital in Fuyang, China. Picture: Chinatopix via AP

MORE NEWS:

Morrison announces travel bans amid coronavirus fears

How travel insurance applies amid the coronavirus health crisis

Opinion: Australia coughs and splutters as virus spreads

The National Security Committee of Cabinet agreed to ban all foreigners, who had travelled through China, from entering Australia in response to what Mr Morrison described as “an escalating threat and a constantly changing situation”.

The entry ban will not apply to Australian citizens, permanent residents and their immediate family. This extends to airline staff who have used personal protective gear.

But those excluded from the ban, which will be reassessed in two weeks, will be asked to self-isolate for a period of 14 days, the amount of time ­experts believe it takes those infected to develop symptoms.

“In addition to that, there’ll be advanced screening and reception arrangements put into place at the major airports to facilitate identifying and providing this information and ensuring the appropriate precautions are being put in place,” Mr Morrison said.

The measure – which was effective from today and is to be reviewed in a fortnight – comes after Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk called for those incoming flights to be halted until the virus is contained.

However, Mr Morrison said advice at the moment from medical experts was not to move to “that level of action”.

“This provides (Australians in mainland China) with the opportunity to return to Australia,” he said.

Coronavirus vaccine could take a year to complete Australian researchers developing a coronavirus vaccine do not expect to begin testing on humans for months.

Mr Morrison also announced new arrangements for Australian airports including the provision of protective masks and thermometers.

“I want to assure Australians that we are doing everything that we can and through these actions to protect Australia for what is an escalating threat and a constantly changing situation,” he said.

Earlier, Qantas confirmed it would suspend its direct flights from Sydney to mainland China.

Premier Steven Marshall acknowledged the travel ban could have an effect on the local tourism industry, which needed all the help it could get after devastating bushfires.

“We know that this is going to have very serious economic impacts for the people of South Australia, especially in terms of international students and tourism, but our primary responsibility is for public health,” Mr Marshall said.

“These measures have been put in place to ensure we can control the spread of the coronavirus.”

media_camera Despite the coronavirus fears and damp, chilly weather, there was a solid turnout of around 1000 people at Saturday’s Chinatown Adelaide Lunar New Year Street Party on Gouger St. Picture: Tom Huntley

Qantas will temporarily cease flying to Beijing and Shanghai from Sydney between February 9 and March 29.

The airline said the eight-day delay was because it was “working to balance high passenger numbers in both directions – including Australian residents wanting to return home from China – with the various travel restrictions”.