Advertisement

The number of infected people aboard the coronavirus-stricken cruise liner moored off Yokohama doubled to 20 overnight but despite the deadly contagion passengers were seen chatting across their balconies today.

Ten more people tested positive for the deadly virus on the Diamond Princess on Thursday after the same number were rushed off the moored vessel to hospitals on the Japanese mainland on Wednesday.

But despite some of the ship's 3,700 passengers complaining of 'prison-like' quarantine conditions they were seen gallivanting on the colossal vessel's galleries today within arms reach of their neighbours.

Japanese authorities have tested 273 people among the passengers and crew after a man who got off the boat last month in Hong Kong tested positive for the new strain.

Among the passengers in Yokohama Bay, near Tokyo, are 78 Britons including David Abel, 74, and his wife Sally, who has described having to rely on Facebook to communicate with his fellow passengers.

The cruise operator, Princess Cruises, said the infected passengers include three Americans, two Australians, seven Japanese, one from Taiwan, two Canadians, one New Zealander and three Hong Kong citizens, as well as one Filipino crew member.

The new cases were reported as the Diamond Princess, which has been ordered to remain at port for 14 days, docked to allow resupply and the removal of sick passengers this morning.

Despite some of the ship's 3,700 passengers complaining of 'prison' like quarantine conditions they were seen gallivanting on the colossal ship's galleries on Thursday within arms reach of their neighbours

An ambulance and Japan Coast Guard members in protective outfit prepare for the arrival of infected passengers that were onboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship, at Yokohama port on Wednesday when another ten were rushed off to hospitals on the Japanese mainland

Ten more people have tested positive for the deadly virus on the Diamond Princess after the same number were rushed off the moored vessel to hospitals on the Japanese mainland on Wednesday (pictured: passengers gaze out to port on Thursday as the ship returned to port to collect supplies)

The Diamond Princess cruise ship with some 3,700 people on board arrives at Yokohama port on Thursday to resupply. People on board have described confusion and boredom after being confined to cabins following the decision by Japanese authorities to quarantine the vessel.

At the port, officials could be seen dressed in white hazmat suits, complete with face masks and helmets. An extendable white-tented passageway was wheeled to a door on the side of the massive cruise ship, apparently to protect the identity of people being evacuated from the boat.

As the massive cruise ship docked, passengers who have been told they will have to stay aboard days even if they test negative for the virus, came out onto balconies, some waving to assembled media or taking pictures.

On Wednesday, 'we received 31 test results, of which 10 were positive', Health Minister Katsunobu Kato told parliament.

For breakfast, quarantined cruisers yesterday were served a measly fruit salad, pastries (both sweet and savoury), a Fru Fru yoghurt and a glass of apple juice

Pictured: Lunch for the quarantined cruisers yesterday at the port of Yokohama included stir-fried tofu and vegetables

'Now we have 71 more test results, of which 10 are positive for the new coronavirus,' he added. 'I don't have immediate information about the current situation, but those who tested positive will be sent to hospitals.'

People on board have described confusion and boredom after being confined to cabins following the decision by Japanese authorities to quarantine the vessel.

Among those stuck on the Diamond Princess are Mr and Mrs Abel from Woodford Halse, Northamptonshire.

@daxa_tw (On board the Diamond Princess) tweeted a picture of an empty lounge with the caption 'Another lounge. Bingo competition venue. I've never been here before but it's quite wide' after all of the passengers were confined to their rooms on board

Another dinner option aboard the quarantined cruise ship yesterday was chicken and rice with a selection of meat and cheese

For breakfast yesterday, the coronavirus-stricken cruise ship served eggs, coffee, fruit muesli, a muffin and a croissant

Another tweet from @daxa_tw (On board the Diamond Princess) says: 'I called you. It seems nothing can be done at the moment. I told you the room number where you can hear a cough. I'm scared'

Lunch - consisting of a sandwich, another roll and some crisps - arrived late yesterday aboard the Diamond Princess currently quarantined at a port in Yokohama

Mr Abel told BBC Radio 4's World At One that they were similar to 'being prisoners' as they are not allowed to leave their cabin.

He later added in a video this morning that food standards had improved but maintained that conditions are still strict.

'One lady hadn't had an evening meal last night, by nine o'clock and she went outside to try and say, "Where's our food" and she was shouted at and told, "Get back in your room", so its really being enforced.' Mr Abel said on a Facebook Live.

'There are people on every floor to make sure that people do not wander outside of their cabins.'

Mr Abel, who is diabetic, said he had a very pleasant phone conversation with the ship's doctor yesterday after the huge social media reaction to his video to ensure that he had enough insulin.

He also described how the ship had been out at sea throughout last night before docking again on Thursday morning.

A woman waves Australian flags as she stands on her cabin's balcony on the colossal vessel. Despite passengers complaining about the draconian quarantine conditions it appears they can chat to each other on the gallery

Passengers aboard the Diamond Princess wave to those on the shore as the media assembled to take photographs at Yokohama port

Workers wearing protective gear prepare to load supplies on to the cruise ship Diamond Princess, where 10 people on the ship had tested positive for coronavirus yesterday, after it arrived at Daikoku Pier Cruise Terminal in Yokohama

A port worker speaks with a crew member after the cruise ship Diamond Princess, where 10 people on the ship had tested positive for coronavirus yesterday and another ten cases were reported today

Among those stranded on board are 233 Australians, including Olivia Capodicasa, from Melbourne, who was on the final night of her cruise with her grandmother when the ship was locked down.

She described the conditions as being like 'hell' and said she had been watching movies to pass the time.

'It has been a hell of a 24 hours stuck in here', she told Sunrise on Thursday morning. 'I think it is really starting to hit me now that this is the reality and I'm not going home anytime soon'.

Olivia Capodicasa (pictured) was on the final night of her cruise with her grandmother when the ship was locked down

More than 20 countries have confirmed cases of the virus, which has infected more than 28,000 in mainland China and killed more than 560 people.

The outbreak has prompted the World Health Organization to declare a global health emergency, several governments to impose travel restrictions, and airlines to suspend flights to and from China.

Japan has now confirmed 25 cases of the new coronavirus - excluding the cruise ship infections - among them citizens returning from Wuhan, the Chinese city at the centre of the outbreak.

Health workers in protective suits put up hoardings on Wednesday as passengers who were diagnosed with the virus are moved

Officers in protective gear carry luggage cases after people who were transferred from cruise ship Diamond Princess on Wednesday when the first 10 people were taken off, another 10 were confirmed to have the virus today

Tokyo has evacuated more than 500 Japanese citizens from Wuhan, and attracted some criticism for its relatively loose quarantine approach.

There have been several incidences of apparent person-to-person transmission in Japan, including a tour guide and bus driver who contracted the virus after coming into contact with visitors from Wuhan.

Neither had visited China in recent months.