Core bonds traded with an upward bias going into the weekend. Disappointing US eco data and the long weekend ahead (US markets closed for President’s Day) caused outperformance of US Treasuries vs German Bunds. The US yield curve bull flattened with yields decreasing by 1.6 bps (2-yr) to 3.2 bps (30-yr). German yields lost 1.1 bps to 1.5 bps across the curve. 10-yr yield spread changes vs Germany were virtually zero with Italy (+3 bps) underperforming. Main European and US stock markets hovered sideways near recent highs following Thursday’s sharp intraday bounce.

Asian stock markets are mixed this morning. Japan (-0.75%) underperforms after an ugly Q4 GDP reading (-1.6% Q/Q following rise in consumption tax). Chinese stocks outperform (+2%) with authorities gearing up support to shield the economy from a corona-related hit. The PBOC cut its MT funding rate by 10 bps while the government pledged additional fiscal support. The German Bund and US Note future lose a few ticks.

Today’s economic calendar is extremely meagre. Traded volumes will be thinned by the US absence while the EMU eco calendar is empty. The German Bundesbank’s monthly report will be closely monitored after Friday’s downward revision to Q4 growth to 0% Q/Q. A downbeat tone could support German Bunds. A speech by ECB board member Lane will probably be ignored given the subject of central bank statistics. Ministers of Finance of the euro zone meet in Brussels (Eurogroup). Attention shifts to Minutes of the Fed (Wednesday) and ECB (Thursday) meetings later this week with EMU February PMIs due on Friday. An avalanche of Fed and ECB speakers features on the agenda as well. Will they already hint at altering their outlooks by giving more weight to the impact of the coronavirus?

Technically: core bond yields failed to take out resistance levels at -0.18% (July high)/-0.15% (38% retracement of Feb ’18 – Sep ’19 decline) for the German 10-yr yield and 1.94% for the US 10-yr yield. The Chinese coronavirus took markets hostage via risk aversion, pulling core bond yields below first support. We hold our view that this won’t be a lasting market theme. The Chinese return to trading after Lunar NY holidays proved to be a turning point, ending the decline since mid-January.

Download The Full Sunrise Market Commentary