With coronavirus, or COVID-19, coverage sweeping the local and national news coverage since the outbreak occurred in China, there has been plenty of reasons to be concerned but according to the Jasper County Health Department the risk remains low in Iowa.

Jasper County Public Health Coordinator Kristina Winfield said COVID-19 was spread due to those who were infected not knowing they were sick. There are seven types of coronaviruses and three of the rarer ones, including COVID-19, can cause more severe illness.

“Before they knew what was happening people traveled around the world ... Before they had a chance to identify the virus,” Winfield said.

While there have been many cases of people being infected with COVID-19 throughout the world and more than 2,000 deaths attributed to the illness, Iowans should rest easy knowing the risk is still low at this time according to Iowa health officials.

“You are at a higher risk of contracting influenza and having complications than you are of contracting coronavirus at this time,” Winfield said.

Even though the risk for COVID-19 is low, there are still precautions for people to remain healthy. According to the Iowa Department of Health, people should still wash their hands, stay home if they are sick and cover coughs and sneezes, among other precautions.

“Washing your hands is the most helpful thing you can do to prevent the spread of any infection,” Winfield said.

According to the deputy state epidemiologist with IDPH Dr. Ann Garvey, the reason for the low risk of the virus in not only Iowa but the United States as a whole is due to the virus not spreading.

“There has not been community spread in the United States. So the risk is really in people who are returning from China,” Garvey said.

There has been 15 confirmed cases in the United States, Garvey said, and 13 of those people had returned from China. The other two instances were people who were in close contact with someone who was a confirmed case.

“We are monitoring people who are returning for 14 days to insure they stay well,” Garvey said.

The IDPH also said to not worry about COVID-19 existing on packaging which may have been shipped from China because the virus cannot survive for very long on surfaces.

“We are making sure everyone understands there is no risk of coronavirus, COVID-19, infection from handling packages that have come from China,” Garvey said.

While coronavirus coverage has been all a nightly staple in media coverage, Garvey said she wanted to make sure people are still paying attention to influenza since Iowa is still seeing a high level of activity.

“It is important people take these measures to protect themselves against the viruses that are circulating in our communities,” Garvey said.

IDPH has dedicated an area on its website to keep Iowans up-to-date on coronavirus coverage. For frequently updated information, visit www.idph.iowa.gov.

“Our website is the best place to get Iowa specific information,” Garvey said.

Contact Dustin Teays at 641-792-3121 ext. 6533 or dteays@newtondailynews.com