S. Africans in Wuhan are well taken care of, says Lin

More than 30 locals were in China, the epicentre where the infection broke out.

JOHANNESBURG - The ambassador of China to South Africa Lin Songtian on Monday said South Africans in Wuhan and cities affected by the coronavirus outbreak were well taken care of.

More than 30 locals were in China, the epicentre where the infection broke out.

The death toll has now exceeded 360 with just one death reported in the Philippines outside China.

Songtian said it was part of their culture to treat foreigners with the utmost respect.

“All the foreigners in China are not our enemy, they’re our friends and visitors. We will keep them well and we need to pay attention to them,” he said.

WATCH: 'It's a ghost town': South Africans in Wuhan describe coronavirus lockdown

Meanwhile, China also thanked South Africa for its support and expertise in dealing with the coronavirus outbreak.

Songtian said they were confident the virus would soon be under control and they were grateful for the help of South African scientists.

China said it urgently needed protective medical equipment as the death toll from the coronavirus rose.

Fears forced people in the densely-populated country of 1.4 billion to stock up on single-use surgical masks while frontline medical personnel at the centre of the outbreak had reported equipment shortages.

The country's foreign ministry said so far, countries including South Korea, Japan, Kazakhstan, and Hungary donated medical supplies.

Authorities said steps were being taken to bring in masks from Europe and the US as factories returned to production after the Lunar New Year.

‘WE’LL BRING THIS VIRUS UNDER OUR CONTROL’

Songtian said, together, the world could stop the coronavirus outbreak.

“We will bring this virus under our control even in China,” he said.

He questioned the manner in which some countries were responding to the coronavirus outbreak.

In a bid to prevent the spread of the deadly virus, several countries evacuated their citizens from Wuhan and others had gone as far as preventing Chinese nationals from entering their territories.

Many countries had evacuated their citizens out of China, however, Songtian said this was not necessary.

“Some countries have stopped people from coming to China, that’s no problem as they're free to decide on that. But, is this really necessary?” he said.