Interesting video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lk5XkhUKMDM "Coronavirus - Inside info and discussion"

Or the Readers Digest version (rough notes)

Lax reactive response is responsible for spread.

People reporting the disease were being arrested and reporters asked to delete images taken from the wet markets. Govt selectively using anti-rumour laws. Rumours being spread that you must abandon your pets.

China govt likes to keep control of 'viral' news and release it themselves.

Chinese have too much trust of their govt that constantly lies to them by playing down the severity of situations.

Chinese like to place blame; they're blaming the Wuhan govt and even Americans. "Don't blame the CCP". "Thousands of Americans die every year from the flu but China only has like 60 deaths per year". Foreigners often blamed every time something bad happens in China.

The amount of people infected in hospitals is a lot more that's actually being reported e.g. official data showing 15 in Shenzhen quarantined however doctors at that hospital saying there's 30.

Doctors told they're not allowed to go on holiday despite it being a holiday period. Doctors on holiday recalled.

Doctors not properly equipped e.g. basic surgical masks, no protective clothing. China is currently in their winter season.

It's a rarity for Chinese to wash their hands. Hospitals, most hotels and public bathrooms don't have soap.

Wuhan is the source of the virus however the 'threat level' wasn't raised when it was raised in other areas.

Chinese are big on alternative medicine including the consumption of random animal body parts as aphrodisiacs.

Largest public banquet record attempt attempted at 7KM from ground zero as an attempt to downplay. Propaganda about sick people being strong and still attending these events.

Face masks being purchased en masse in bulk from Amazon - all sold out.

Areas with counts of zero infections despite there being videos showing sick people collected into ambulances by people in hazmat suits from those places.

Wuhan was quarantined but not before they tell everyone all the roads are going to close meaning everyone drives out anyway. People then allowed to drive out regardless.

People are openly bragging on social media about escaping from Wuhan.

The holiday is a huge event - desperation to travel back home (due to urbanisation) drives up crime e.g. theft to pay for the travel.

Majority of Chinese go to wet markets. Culture is to eat fresh every day rather than making use of refrigeration. SARS was supposed to have ended the selling of live animals but still you get your purchased animals killed right in front of you. Any animal you can imagine is available (Chinese koala, armadillo, cats and of course dogs).

Hygiene isn't part of their culture. Spitting is seen as healthy. Compare to the Spanish flu where spitting was banned. Deaths are family business and not properly reported.