Sigh. The coronavirus has been making headlines and like it or not, you're probably going to be seeing it more often since the disease is trending and spreading.



According to this tracker developed by the Johns Hopkins University, more than 7,700 cases have been confirmed with the death toll at 170 as of press time on January 30, 2020.

Although almost 98 percent of the cases are reported to have originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan, scientists fear that the next big city to be hit by the virus could potentially be Thailand's capital, Bangkok.

You can't be serious.

Coronavirus causes deadly respiratory infections among animals and humans.

I am.



A group of researchers from the University of Southampton who were mapping global population discovered recently that other cities are in danger of suffering from the coronavirus outbreak. The team published their findings on January 28, 2020.

According to their analysis of the travel data of those traveling from mainland China, the team discovered that the spread of the coronavirus has a pattern which factors in the distribution of the infections globally.

Three cities are from Southeast Asia.

Singapore is in the list.

Based on their findings, these are the cities after Wuhan that might be affected:

Bangkok, Thailand Hong Kong Taipei, Taiwan Seoul, South Korea Tokyo, Japan Singapore Phuket, Thailand Osaka, Japan Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Macau Bali, Indonesia Sydney, Australia Chiang Mai, Thailand Melbourne, Australia Los Angeles, U.S. New York, U.S. Dubai, UAE Niha Trang, Vietnam London, UK Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam

Eerily, the number of affected cases are similar to what is being predicted since Thailand tops the list for having the most number of cases after China.

How accurate are these estimations?

Travel bans have been imposed on Chinese travelers by some countries.

The researchers assessed these data on air travelers estimated to travel to Bangkok from among the badly-affected cities in China.

Through IP address and anonymized mobile phone data coupled with travel data, the team were able to study the movement patterns of people from China and around the world.

The study discovered that 18 other Chinese cities might be next in line should the outbreak worsen. To predict the affected cities, they estimated the volume of passengers from these areas traveling to the cities within a three-month period.

However, it's crucial to note that this analysis is based on a "non-outbreak" scenario. Meaning, their findings would only be proven true if countries fail to impose travel restrictions.

Okay, so what are these countries doing then?

This dog saved its owner from traveling to Wuhan by eating her passport.

There's the good news and bad news.



The bad news? Wuhan had only imposed travel restrictions after the discovery of the virus. While the lockdown is currently in effect, more than five million people have already left the city to other places. Possibly to the cities mentioned above.



The good news is scientists are racing against the clock, collaborating with each other to release a vaccine at breakneck speed. With state of the art tools, technology, and some of the smartest minds, there are more reasons to stay optimistic.

These countries mentioned above have also begun to impose travel restrictions of their own.

Singapore, for instance, is denying entry to those who traveled to Hubei in the last 14 days. This include those holding Chinese passports.



Malaysia too has done the same by following World Health Organization's (WHO) procedures while obtaining advice from health experts to better handle the spread of the deadly virus.



Across the sea, Indonesia has warned its citizens against traveling to China. Thai hoteliers, on the other hand, are bracing for slow business following the reduction of Chinese travelers.

How do I stay safe?

Wear a surgical mask.

While you shouldn't really be alarmed, there's no harm in taking extra precautions to stay safe. So long as you follow these preventive measures, you'll be fine:

Rinse your hands often with soap and water.

Avoid touching your eyes, mouth, or nose with uncleaned hands.

Avoid close contact with people who're unwell.

Wear a surgical mask. Here's how to tell the difference.

In the event you have flu-like symptoms, please get yourself quickly checked.

While there are no known specific treatments, health experts have suggested staying indoors and resting, taking pain and fever medications, and drinking lots of water as ways to treat the disease.

Cover image sourced from Patrick Langwallner andTore F / Unsplash