The Ministry of Health has confirmed two more cases of the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infection on Tuesday (11 Feb). This makes a total of 47 confirmed cases so far.

One new infected case was a contact of Case 42 and the other had no recent travel history to China or known contact with the previously confirmed cases.

Of the 25 locally transmitted cases, epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have uncovered links between 15 of the cases with the three currently known clusters2. Contact tracing is underway for the other 10 locally transmitted cases to establish if they are linked to previous cases or persons with travel history to mainland China.

About the confirmed cases

Case 46 is a 35 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident with no recent travel history to China. He lives in Johor Bahru and works in Singapore. He is currently warded in an isolation room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID).

More details He reported onset of symptoms on 5 February, and had sought treatment at a general practitioner (GP) clinic on 9 February. He was transferred to Tan Tock Seng Hospital via an ambulance on the same day, and was immediately isolated. Subsequent test results confirmed 2019-nCoV infection on 10 February afternoon. Prior to hospital admission, he had gone to work at Resorts World Sentosa Casino (8 Sentosa Gateway).

Case 47 is a 39 year-old male Bangladesh national who is a Singapore Work Pass holder, and has no recent travel history to China. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID.

More details He reported onset of symptoms on 6 February, and sought treatment at a GP clinic on 7 February. He went to NCID on 10 February, and test results confirmed 2019-nCoV infection on 10 February afternoon. Prior to hospital admission, he had gone to work at 10 Seletar Aerospace Heights, the same location where Case 42 had worked. He reported that he had stayed at his rental apartment at Veerasamy Road since the onset of symptoms, except to visit the GP clinic.

Update on condition of confirmed cases

To date, a total of nine cases have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospital. Of the 38 confirmed cases who are still in hospital, most are stable or improving. Seven are in critical condition in the intensive care unit.

Update on suspect cases

As of 11 February 2020, 12pm, 608 of the suspect cases have tested negative for 2019-nCoV, and 47 have tested positive. Test results for the remaining 43 cases are pending.

Update on contact tracing for confirmed cases

Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing. Once identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance, and will be contacted daily to monitor their health status.

As of 11 February 2020, 12pm, MOH has identified 1,124 close contacts. Of the 1,021 who are still in Singapore, 989 have been contacted and are being quarantined or isolated. Efforts are ongoing to contact the remaining 32 close contacts.