© Provided by The Star Online ZTE, which has been a mainstay at MWC for years, is withdrawing from the coming exhibition in February due to concerns about the coronavirus outbreak. - Khor Sow Yee/The Star

Several companies have pulled out of this year's edition of Mobile World Congress (MWC), one of the largest mobile technology trade shows, as concern about the coronavirus outbreak continues to grow.

South Korea’s LG Electronics announced it was withdrawing from the annual conference in Barcelona, Spain to remove the risk of exposing hundreds of its employees to international travel.

“With the safety of its employees, partners and customers foremost in mind, LG has decided to withdraw from exhibiting and participating in MWC 2020,” it said in a press statement.

It added that it would be holding separate events later in the year to announce its mobile products.

Chinese telco ZTE has also withdrawn from MWC, blaming travel delays and possible racial concerns.

The Verge reported a statement from its spokesperson, who said practical issues like travel and visa delays meant many people would not be attending anyway.

“[We] tend to be an overly courteous company, and simply don’t want to make people uncomfortable,” added the spokesperson, hinting at issues caused by xenophobia due to the outbreak starting in Wuhan, China.

The Global System for Mobile Communications Association (GSMA), which organises MWC, has assured that it is taking precautions to keep visitors to its annual trade exhibition safe.

It states that there is minimal impact on the event so far and it will proceed as planned, running from Feb 24 to 27 at multiple venues across Barcelona.

The GSMA said it has implemented measures to mitigate the spread of the virus and is continuing to add other actions regularly.

These measures include increasing onsite medical support, implementing a disinfection programme for all high-volume touchpoints, providing sanitising and disinfection materials for the public, running awareness campaigns online and onsite, as well as providing training for all its staff and exhibitors on the necessary health procedures.

It is even going so far as to suggest attendees adopt a “no-handshake policy”.