Symbol photo on the topic cryptocurrency. (Getty/Kyodo)

RIYADH (Kyodo) -- The finance chiefs of the Group of 20 major economies on Saturday assessed the economic fallout from the new coronavirus outbreak in China, with the International Monetary Fund reporting the 2020 growth forecast of the world's second largest economy to be 5.6 percent, a decrease by 0.4 percentage point from its earlier estimate.

It is the first G-20 gathering since the outbreak of the pneumonia-causing virus, which has brought the Chinese economy nearly to a standstill. The meeting in Saudi Arabia will continue through Sunday.

The coronavirus issue is "certain to become a major point of discussion" as it is considered a risk to the global economy, Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda told reporters ahead of the meeting. He is representing Japan with Finance Minister Taro Aso.

China did not send its finance minister to the gathering in Saudi Arabia as the country continues to devote its energy to contain the disease that has already claimed the lives of more than 2,000 people.

The meeting is also the first ministerial meeting after Saudi Arabia took over the G-20 presidency from Japan late last year. As the first Arab nation to take the helm of the forum, the kingdom is back in the spotlight after facing harsh criticism over the killing of Saudi dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi in 2018.

The virus, which first emerged in the Chinese central city of Wuhan in December, has since quickly spread across China, causing disruption in the operations of factories, offices and shops. Public movement has also been restricted amid efforts to contain the disease.

An IMF report prepared for the G-20 meeting warned that the halt in production and limited mobility of people in China could spill over to the global economy, affecting tourism and supply chains.

While noting that the uncertainties are "too great to permit reliable forecasting" and many scenarios can play out depending on how quickly the virus is contained, IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva said that the "current baseline scenario" is that China's economy would return to normal in the April-June quarter.

"As a result, the impact on the world economy would be relatively minor and short-lived," she said at the meeting, according to a statement by the IMF.

In that scenario, global growth would also be affected downward by about 0.1 point, according to the statement.

Meanwhile, Japan, the world's third-largest economy, could be affected by slowing exports to China, supply chain disruptions and a drop in the number of Chinese tourists.

"We must pay attention to these three channels...we don't know when this coronavirus epidemic will come to an end, so the uncertainty remains high," Kuroda said.

The BOJ chief, however, said the Japanese economy remains on a path of moderate recovery.

Another key topic during the two-day discussions will be international taxation rules for information technology giants such as Apple Inc. and Google LLC's parent Alphabet Inc. amid criticism they are not paying their fair share of taxes despite making profits in countries where they are not physically present.

The G-20 finance ministers and central bank governors are expected to endorse a proposal outline on the issue agreed by Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development members in January, which would enable countries to tax major multinationals including digital companies based on the location of their customers.

The goal is to agree on a new international tax system by the end of this year, but the process could be complicated in the course of fleshing out the details.

With the envisioned new rules likely to affect U.S. technology companies, Washington has proposed a "safe-harbor" regime that tax experts have said would allow companies to choose to continue operating under the current taxation rules.

U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a symposium held on the sidelines of the G-20 meeting that the matter is a "complicated issue that challenges a fundamental premise of the international tax system, which is physical presence."

Additionally, the G-20 finance chiefs are expected to discuss challenges and possible regulations over digital currencies, according to Japanese officials.

The finance ministers and central bank governors plan to issue a communique upon wrapping up their talks on Sunday.

The G-20 groups Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Britain, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, South Korea, Turkey, the United States and the European Union.

A series of ministerial gatherings will be held in Saudi Arabia in the run-up to the summit on Nov. 21 to 22 in the capital city.

The oil-rich kingdom, a Muslim country in which Islamic law is strictly enforced, has pushed ahead with social reforms under Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia, such as by granting greater rights to women.

But the country has also faced international condemnation over its human rights record, particularly over Khashoggi's death at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul.