China coronavirus: Brits stranded in Wuhan amid virus outbreak 'frustrated' by Government's latest advice

The Government has said the option of airlifting UK citizens out of the city was "under review"

By Isabella Cipirska Sunday, 26th January 2020, 10:47 pm Updated Wednesday, 29th January 2020, 7:58 am

The family of a university lecturer trapped in Wuhan believes a Government-arranged airlift would be the only way of getting her home.

Yvonne Griffiths from Cardiff, who is one of more than 200 British people stranded in the Chinese city where the coronavirus was first detected, has criticised the Government's response to the outbreak.

The Foreign Office is urging Britons in the Hubei province to leave if they can, but has not committed to evacuating UK citizens, in contrast to countries like the US, France and Japan.

Sign up to our daily newsletter The i newsletter cut through the noise Thanks for signing up! Sorry, there seem to be some issues. Please try again later. Submitting...

However the Government has said an airlift for those who were stranded was being kept "under review."

'There's no getting out'

(Photo: Dale de la Rey/Getty)

Dr Griffths' daughter Bethan Webber has insisted that this would be the only way of getting her mother home, after her flight back to the UK on Monday was cancelled.

"Short of the government getting her out there's no getting out," she told the BBC.

The Hubei province has been on lockdown for days since the outbreak of the virus, which has infected almost 2,000 people and killed 56.

The airport has been closed and checkpoints are preventing people from leaving the province. Dr Griffiths said: "All the transport links are closed so I find it a little bit surprising that we're being told to leave if we can when there is no possible route."

'Disappointed' at response

The 71-year-old told the BBC that no one had answered her calls at the consulate in Wuhan because it was the weekend.

She said she wanted more information from the British Embassy, and said: "I am disappointed at the absolute silence on the issue of how stranded people are going to get home."

Two British graduates who are teaching in English in Wuhan, Sophie and Jason, told the BBC they had been "stuck in the house for four days".

Sophie said: "We're frustrated by the fact we don't know what's going on."

Another UK citizen called Tony, who is in Wuhan with his Chinese wife and her family, said he had tried calling the British Consulate in Wuhan and the UK embassy in Beijing, but said the answer phone message had not been updated.

Government looking at all options

Chinese authorities tightened restrictions on travel and tourism this weekend after putting Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province, under quarantine on Thursday. (Photo by Betsy Joles/Getty Images)

A foreign office spokesman said its consular team was ready to assist any British people who needed help.

When asked whether the Government was considering airlifting UK citizens out of Wuhan, the Home Secretary Priti Patel said: "We are looking at all options."

She told Sky News’s Sophy Ridge on Sunday programme the Government was taking “all the precautions and the right measures” and working with agencies like Public Health England.

The Department of Health has said there were "currently no confirmed cases" of the coronavirus in the UK or of UK citizens abroad and said the risk to the public was "low".