Although the coronavirus originating from Wuhan, China was labeled a “public health emergency of international concern” on Thursday, infectious disease experts at UAB Hospital and a Jefferson County Health Department official said Alabamians have little to worry about the epidemic.

“I think it’s a very minimum amount of worry that should be there,” said Dr. Wesley Willeford, director of disease control with the department. “Today, I don’t think that’s something that people should be losing a lot of sleep about.”

At the same time, UAB experts said the hospital is prepared if a suspected case of the Wuhan coronavirus reaches Birmingham or elsewhere in Alabama.

The Wuhan coronavirus, known as the 2019 Novel Coronavirus, or 2019-nCoV, was detected in late December. So far, more than 9,100 cases have been identified, including six cases in the United States. On Thursday, the first case of human-to-human transmission of the virus was recorded in Illinois after a woman who traveled from China to the U.S. infected her husband.

The virus causes mild respiratory illness in most cases, although 170 people have died from the infection.

Alabama experts briefed the media on the latest updates on the virus at UAB Hospital’s Civitan International Research Center on Thursday.

“The situation is evolving literally minute-by-minute,” said Dr. Jeanne Mazzaro, an infectious disease physician at UAB and part of a committee with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the National Institutes of Health tasked with creating a vaccine for the coronavirus.

While the virus is an epidemic, it is not a pandemic, or a more widespread outbreak infecting many people in various locations throughout the world, Mazzaro said.

“We are definitively not seeing any outbreaks in the United States. What we are seeing in the U.S. even with this case today [in Illinois] … is localized infectious that are directly related to importation from China, or in this case today, acquisition of someone who brought it from China.”

The World Health Organization labeling the virus a “public health emergency of national concern” on Thursday will help to stop the spread of the coronavirus because the distinction opens up funding resources to fight the infection and mobilizes resources.

Infectious disease experts are more prepared to combat the coronavirus because of experiences with other outbreaks, such as the 2003 SARS outbreak that started in China, according to Dr. Rachel Lee, an infectious disease specialist at UAB.

“The lessons learned from SARS …a lot of hospitals were unprepared at that time, and now I feel from lessons learned from that ... UAB is very prepared to care for anybody that has a respiratory illness,” she said.

Mazarro noted that after SARS, the Chinese version of the Centers for Disease Control set up a surveillance system to detect pneumonia-like infections of unknown cause. The system helped health officials there detect the coronavirus.

A more pressing concern for Alabama than the coronavirus is the flu, experts said. Willeford said 8,200 people in the United States have died from influenza during the 2019-2020 flu season so far.

“We do worry about [coronavirus] and remain vigilant, [but] it’s important to note there are other threats with very serious consequences,” he said.

Experts urged Alabamians to get flu shots even though the flu season is almost over. And measures taken to prevent the flu would also be helpful to protect against coronavirus should a case be reported in Alabama, they said.

“Protecting yourself from the flu would also be protecting yourself from the coronavirus, but again, [no cases of coronavirus] here now, and hopefully we will not be seeing it anytime soon,” Willeford said.

———

©2020 Alabama Media Group, Birmingham

Visit Alabama Media Group, Birmingham at www.al.com

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.