Vietnam’s recently-installed infectious disease surveillance system detected two visitors from Wuhan, China, that were showing signs of fever upon their arrival at Da Nang Airport yesterday through a remote body temperature scanner.

At the event

The visitors were put into isolation and closely monitored, while samples were taken to the Nha Trang Pasteur Institute for testing in a bid to determine the causative agent of the disease.

During a meeting of the Steering Committee for the Prevention and Control of Dangerous and Emerging Diseases held on January 15, Deputy Minister of Health Do Xuan Tuyen noted that the Ministry of Health has compiled a list of individuals that came into close contact with the two patients in order to strictly monitor their health situation.

The Ministry of Health also sent representatives to work alongside the Da Nang Steering Committee on Epidemic Prevention and Control in a bid to strengthen prevention activities and combat the spread of the disease.

Despite the country yet to record any cases of the disease, there remains a high risk that the disease could spread throughout the nation as Vietnam has had a lot of trade exchanges and tourism activities with China.

Deputy Minister Do Xuan Tuyen stated that the Ministry of Health will continue to organise missions aimed at carrying out prevention work in localities that share large border areas with China throughout January and February.

Deputy Minister of Health Do Xuan Tuyen speaks at the event

Simultaneously, the Ministry has instructed localities to be proactive and take drastic measures in an attempt to prevent the spread of any potential disease, in addition to dealing with any detected cases in a timely manner.

In order to be proactive in preventing severe pneumonia caused by the new strain of coronavirus in Wuhan, the Ministry of Health recommends that residents limit their direct contact with people infected with acute respiratory infections.

Citizens are being advised to wear a medical mask and keep a distance when coming into contact with infected patients, wash their hands with soap, and gargle antiseptic water to prevent cases of severe pneumonia occurring. VOV

Vietnam responds to China’s pneumonia outbreak The Vietnam Public Health Emergency Operation Centre said it was developing response plans and preparing for worst-case scenarios following an outbreak of pneumonia in China.