Exchange student Adam Fern is stuck in quarantine in the midst of the coronavirus outbreak in China

Kiwi university student Adam Fern has been documenting his life on coronavirus lockdown.

Fern lives in Hangzhou city, an eight hour drive from the epicentre of the epidemic in Wuhan.

He is allowed to leave his apartment once every two days for supplies and must pass a temperature check to come and go.

"They've blocked all the ways out of my residential area (except for one). We have to give them our details (passport or ID) and do a medical check before we can exit. They then check those off on the way back and you're not allowed to exit the next day. Though, I think they might be expanding this soon," he told Stuff.

READ MORE:

* The Detail: What happened in Wuhan, the coronavirus ground zero?

* Coronavirus: China's rapidly-built hospital falls short

* Coronavirus: Kiwi evacuees from Wuhan expected in New Zealand late on Wednesday

* Coronavirus: Every thing a Kiwi traveller needs to know

23-year-old Fern teaches English and Western culture to wealthy Chinese, including doctors, pilots and police. He started stocking up on food supplies when his company closed indefinitely at the end of January.

He is still receiving full-time pay.

"Most people know that Wuhan is the epicentre of the crisis, but not many know that Hangzhou and Taizhou are the second most heavily hit," he said in a video update for family and friends posted to Facebook.

"The number of infected here has been reported as several hundred, potentially several thousand. They've actually stopped publishing numbers so we're not sure anymore."

Fern, who is from Napier, has been keeping himself busy with exams sent by Massey University, although he said he still manages to procrastinate.

He filmed his latest supply run to show what a "ghost town" the city of nine million has become. "If you want to go outside, you need to wear a mask or you'll be escorted back to your apartment by police," he told the camera.

In the centre of town, outside the supermarket he continues; "Usually you should be expecting traffic or people on par with Westminster in London.

"I'm about to show you, there is literally nothing here." He pans to a deserted seven lane highway. With almost no sound except for Fern's own footsteps, the scene resembles something like an apocalyptic film.

"It's quite spooky," he says.

Just one of 20 entrances to a six storey mall remain open. There are officials stationed outside checking temperature, to ensure no one going in is infected.

Fern's usual supermarket is closed. He'll have to look elsewhere. He returns via the subway, which is one thing he says is "quite nice" to have empty. The doors are kept ajar so there's no need to risk infection by touching the turnstiles.

The city has become a maze of redirections and makeshift barriers, made with abandoned cars and bicycles. By the time Fern makes the return journey to his apartment, the usual way home has been blocked off.

"It was open when I left."

ADAM FERN Kiwi exchange student Adam Fern has been documenting his life on coronavirus lockdown in Hangzhou, China.

Fern says he didn't consider attempting to take the Air New Zealand flight out of Wuhan: "I would have had to cross province lines to get there (similar to state lines in the US) which would be fine normally, but as people can get in (but not out) of the province, I thought it best not to take the risk."

Inside his apartment with supplies, he feels totally safe. "But... the consequences of running a fever and getting caught with one at a medical stop are real.

"Anyone who doesn't pass their check gets put in a van and taken to a hospital, which is not where you want to be considering its full of people with coronavirus."

Most of Fern's local colleagues are trapped overseas, unable to return to the city. Many of his international friends "decided to run off" before the quarantines were put in.

"If I was to leave China, I would probably go on holiday in the Caribbean or something, somewhere cheap while I keep doing my distance study. I'm watching the situation very, very closely. I haven't resigned myself to it, I'm just waiting to see how it evolves."

Maintaining a supply of bottled water is the most difficult and necessary task, because Hangzhou's tap water is full of lead. Second is fresh food, which has risen to five times its regular price, said Fern.

"Fresh stuff is the other thing I aim to get, fruit, vegetables, bread etc. I've got plenty of preservable stuff, like canned foods, pasta, noodles, and cereals."

There are no limits on food supplies yet, but items are becoming more scarce. Convenience stores also require health checks for entry.

"Some fruit stores are open, but this stuff is out in the open. Do you really want to pick up fruit that people have been breathing over whilst uncovered? Bizarrely, McDonald's seems to be open," he said.

Residents aren't being told what roads are blocked and where they can and can't go. "I have to find these places myself, which means more wandering, which means more time out on streets, which means more people, which means more exposure to risk."

Once home, Fern prepares to hunker down in the apartment he rents for $150 per week. "I'm sure you Wellingtonians are little bit jealous about that," he jokes.

Although, his cabin fever is steadily growing. Today, Fern said he is already looking forward to his next venture into the changing outside world.

"I'm going for a wander around my residential area in a couple hours to see if they've swapped from makeshift to semi-permanent barriers yet."