- Larry Madowo said he publicly criticised the government's shut down of media houses in 2018 during Raila Odinga's mock swearing-in

- His criticism of the regime landed him in trouble and he was set for arrest alongside two others but they managed to escape to a safe house

- Fortunately, they were granted anticipatory bail and were free to go back to work

- However, Nation Media Group inhibited him from going on air or publishing a piece about the experience he had had with the government

- NTV's infringement of media freedom alongside the State made him leave the station and later got a plum job in BBC

Celebrated Kenyan journalist Larry Madowo has opened up on the circumstances that led to his exit from Nation Media Group.

The journalist said his woes started during the mock swearing-in of opposition leader Raila Odinga when the government shut down mainstream media on grounds of national security in 2018.

READ ALSO: No hurry to evacuate Kenyans from China: Kenya's ambassador to China says

READ ALSO: Moses Kuria says supporting BBI cannot save doomed Tanga Tanga team

Speaking while receiving an award from Association of Foreign Correspondents USA, Madowo said he was publicly critical of the shut down since it was an absolute threat to press freedom and this got him into trouble with the current regime.

"I was on air when the government shut down our signal and I was openly critical to that, not only on social media but on international media outlets.

READ ALSO: Wakazi Taita Taveta walalamika uhaba wa maji, wadai yamenyakuliwa na DP Ruto

"One of my colleagues, myself and our boss were earmarked for arrest by this very brutal wing of the Kenya police that is known for reinforced arrest and disappearance of individuals and so basically we would have disappeared forever," said the international media personality.

The three of them escaped from the authorities by hiding under a car; the very bottom of the vehicle and were driven out of the newsroom to a safe house.

Luckily, they got anticipatory bail which meant the government could not arrest them but they would in turn show up in court when required.

Things, however, got worse when he went back to NTV after the anticipatory bail and his bosses told him he would be off-air until temperatures in the political sphere cooled down.

"I used to write a column for the same organisation for a newspaper it owned (Daily Nation) and I said I wanted to write about the whole experience but the organisation said it would not do that.

"So, I was not only facing threats from the government but the media house did not want to displease the government and therefore censoring content," said Madowo.

READ ALSO: Kobe Bryant wife and kids (photos)

Nation Media Group's attempt to silence him was completely unacceptable to him and he resorted to write the piece and published it on CNN.

"I published the piece on CNN and I left the organisation," he said.

The decorated media personnel later got a plum job in BBC as a business correspondent of Africa.

While winding up his speech, the ex-NTV anchor honoured all journalists who expose wrongdoings and end up arrested or even killed.

"Those journalists shine a spotlight to corruption and speak truth to power. They are the true heroes and they are the ones that deserve recognition," said the anchor to the ovation of his listeners.

Do you have a groundbreaking story you would like us to publish? Please reach us through news@tuko.co.ke or WhatsApp: 0732482690. Contact Tuko.co.ke instantly.

Edgar Obare is not sorry for exposing celebrities | Tuko TV