© (STR/AFP/Getty Images) TOPSHOT - This photo taken on February 16, 2020 shows medical staff members talking at the Wuhan Red Cross Hospital in Wuhan in China's central Hubei province. - The death toll from the COVID-19 coronavirus epidemic jumped to 1,770 in China after 105 more people died, the National Health Commission said February 17. (Photo by STR / AFP) / China OUT (Photo by STR/AFP via Getty Images)

The World Health Organization says more financial support is needed to fight the coronavirus as Chinese officials defend their government's actions to stop the spread of the outbreak, which has infected more than 75,000 people.

The virus is "public enemy No. 1, but it's not been treated as such," Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO director general, said at a press briefing Thursday. "The finance is still low."

Tedros said the organization has asked the international community for nearly $700 million for a response plan. He said he remains confident that the outbreak can still be contained.

"Let's not squander the window of opportunity we have," he said.

Tedros noted that the number of cases outside China is relatively small, "but that might not stay the same for long," he said.

China announced just 394 new cases Thursday – the lowest number of daily new cases officially recorded in the country in weeks.

The fall comes as China is backing off its new methodology for confirming cases. The country says it is no longer counting clinically confirmed cases, which resulted in a spike in cases last week.

The virus has killed at least 2,126 people and infected over 75,000 more.

But Chinese officials on Thursday defended their government's quarantines as a method to contain the coronavirus.

"It's not easy for us to make these decisions," said Yu Xiangyang, the deputy secretary general of State Council. "It's known that for infectious disease, whatever treatment used, the most economically friendly measure is to isolate the population."

Outside of China, two people who were formerly onboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship docked in Japan have died. They were both in their 80s with underlying health conditions, according to WHO. More than 600 cases were found on the ship, which is the largest total outside of China.

The remaining passengers are in the process of disembarking from the boat. They must show no symptoms of the virus, test negative for it and have avoided contact with confirmed cases in the past 14 days.

Iran also reported its first cases of the coronavirus, saying two people have died.

WHO said two treatment trials are ongoing, with preliminary results expected in three weeks.

Copyright 2020 U.S. News & World Report