New York City officials prepare for an inevitable case of the Wuhan coronavirus on Friday as the state monitors three people outside the five boroughs who may have been infected.

The state Department of Health had four people under investigation and in isolation for the virus while their cases were tested by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, officials said. One was found to not have the virus and none of the four people live in New York City.

But the strain’s arrival in the five boroughs was anticipated “sooner rather than later” given the city’s standing as an international transportation hub with the largest Chinese population outside of Asia, Mayor de Blasio said, citing the “rapid” spread of the emerging virus.

“We are preparing on the assumption that it’s not a question of if but a question of when we start to have cases of coronavirus here in New York city,” de Blasio said.

The international outbreak of a respiratory illness caused by a new coronavirus was first identified in Wuhan, China, with at least 26 killed and 800 sickened so far, according to health officials. The U.S. is among 16 counties where the coronavirus has spread so far, with two confirmed cases in Washington state and Chicago, Ill.

While officials stressed no cases or suspected infections have been identified in New York City so far, they’ve readied physicians and hospitals for patients, as well as conducted outreach in communities at particular risk.

Still, anyone who has been to Wuhan in the last 14 days and feels sick with fever, cough or trouble breathing was told to seek medical care immediately, calling doctor or emergency rooms ahead of time to inform them of their recent travel and symptoms. The CDC also recommends anyone who’s recently gone to Wuhan to avoid contact with others and avoid traveling while sick.

"Do not hesitate," de Blasio said. "We have to be vigilant — we have to be ready."

All New Yorkers were advised to use go-to cold and flu prevention measures as well: cover mouth and nose with a tissue or sleeve while coughing and sneezing, as well as washing hands often with soap and water for 20 seconds.

But New Yorkers were also told to go stick to their typical routine — and celebrations as the Lunar New Year begins Saturday.

“The risk to New Yorkers currently is low and our preparedness as a city is high,” Health Commissioner Dr. Oxiris Barbot said. “We want New Yorkers to go about their daily lives.”

Officials conducted a tabletop drill Friday on what would happen if — or more likely, when — cases begin to appear in New York City.

City hospitals and health providers have now been trained to identify symptoms, which include cough, shortness of breath and fever. All city hospitals already go through drills in which "mystery patients" are used to test their responsiveness to viruses like this one.

The CDC is already screening passengers on direct or connecting flights from Wuhan to five major airports, including JFK. If a traveller arrives at JFK Airport with symptoms, they would be transported to one of four nearby hospitals — Jamaica, Long Island Jewish Medical, NewYork-Presbyterian Queens and SUNY Downstate Medical — according to Barbot.

Screenings include symptom and temperature checks. Barbot said that anyone who has a positive screening would be tested for other viruses to rule them out first. There’s currently no way to vaccinate against the virus or a definitive treatment.

“We know that it can be transmitted from individual to individual, but we don’t yet know how easy that transmission can be...or at what point in the illness someone can transmit the virus," Barbot said.

The first Wuhan coronavirus case in the U.S. was announced Tuesday when federal health officials confirmed a Washington State man in his 30s who traveled to China was hospitalized. On Friday a 60-year-old woman from Chicago who flew to Illinois from Wuhan last week was confirmed as the second case.

Coronaviruses can infect both animals and people, causing respiratory illnesses that range from a simple common cold to even SARS, which killed 774 across the globe during an outbreak in 2002 and 2003.

This coronavirus is believed to have originated at a seafood market in Wuhan, suggesting it can spread between people as well as from animals to humans, the CDC said. Infections have resulted in severe illness and even death, while others with the coronavirus only had mild, flu-like symptoms.

Preliminary information suggests that it can only be transmitted through prolonged exposure, but there’s still a lot health officials don’t know about the virus.

———

©2020 New York Daily News

Visit New York Daily News at www.nydailynews.com

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.