For the first time, a person in New Jersey has been placed into mandatory quarantine over the threat of the coronavirus, the state health department confirmed Wednesday morning.

The woman — who is not a New Jersey resident — flew from Hubei, China to Newark Liberty International Airport on Tuesday, the department said.

The woman did not show any symptoms of the virus, the department said. But because she was in Hubei — the Chinese province where the virus originated — as of Tuesday, the woman was ordered into a mandatory 14-day quarantine, the department said.

The woman was taken to an undisclosed location in Essex County, where the New Jersey Department of Health will monitor her for symptoms the next 14 days.

“The risk of novel coronavirus transmission in New Jersey residents remains low,” said Nicole Kirgan, a spokeswoman for the department.

New Jersey has no confirmed cases of coronavirus.

But 490 people across the globe have died from the virus and there are more than 24,000 confirmed cases throughout the world. Of those, 16,678 have been in Hubei.

NJ Advance Media was the first to report on the quarantine Wednesday morning, citing an anonymous source familiar with the effort.

The woman landed in Newark on United Flight 87 around 6 p.m. Tuesday, said the source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the matter.

Gov. Phil Murphy on Monday launched a task force to coordinate New Jersey’s response to the threat.

The state also created a website and a hotline — 1-800-222-1222 — to answer questions about the virus.

At Princeton University, one student who recently traveled to China is still being assessed for coronavirus among the more than 100 who were required to self-quarantine over the weekend, school officials said.

Brent Johnson may be reached at bjohnson@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @johnsb01.

Chris Sheldon may be reached at csheldon@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @chrisrsheldon Find NJ.com on Facebook.

Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips. Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.