CLOSE Dr. Cara Christ talks about the first confirmed Novel Coronavirus Case in Arizona belonging to an adult that had traveled to the region of China. Arizona Republic

Five patients were in isolation in New York on Monday while authorities tested them for novel coronavirus and health officials across the U.S. braced for new cases of the fast-spreading outbreak that started in China.

A total of nine cases in New York have been investigated for coronavirus, including four that have been proven negative, according to Gov. Andrew Cuomo.

The five patients remained in isolation as their cases were tested at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, he said Monday in a statement.

New York state health officials would not provide details about the locations of the isolated patients and other details, such as their ages or travel histories, citing patient confidentiality.

"While the experts still believe the risk of catching this novel coronavirus is currently low in New York, I want all New Yorkers to know we are prepared and continue to take all necessary steps to keep people informed and safe," Cuomo said.

The Broome County Health Department on Monday said two adults who recently returned from separate trips to China are being tested for coronavirus.

Both patients were evaluated at local medical facilities for respiratory symptoms, and tests are underway at the CDC in Atlanta, Georgia, the county health department said. Results are anticipated within a few days.

Since neither patient was seriously ill, both were released to their homes under home isolation, county health officials said, adding both patients presented no risk to the general public.

The University of Rochester on Monday was also monitoring an unspecified number of students and faculty members for the coronavirus. Many of those under medical evaluation had recently traveled to China or other parts of East Asia connected to the outbreak.

The university has seen no evidence that anyone in its community is infected with the virus, according to a university spokeswoman.

The latest on coronavirus in the U.S.

Passengers wear protective masks to protect against the spread of the Coronavirus last week as they arrive at the Los Angeles International Airport. (Photo: Getty Images)

On Monday, China's death toll from the new coronavirus has reached 81 and confirmed cases across the nation ballooned to more than 2,700.

More than 40 cases have been confirmed in a dozen other countries, including five in the U.S., in the states of California, Illinois, Arizona and Washington. Drug companies are also racing the clock to develop a vaccine.

Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, said Monday that 110 people in 26 states are "under investigation" for the virus.

"This is a rapidly changing situation, both here and abroad," Messonnier said. "However, the immediate risk to the general U.S. public is low at this time."

She said no human-to-human transmission has been documented in the U.S. But she said a program for screening travelers entering the U.S. from Wuhan could be expanded in coming days to include other parts of China.

China’s National Health Commission noted it appears the virus is infectious before symptoms show, an alarming characteristic that could complicate containment efforts.

The government extended its Lunar New Year holiday period by three days, until Sunday, to ease crowds as tens of millions of Chinese return home from visiting family and tourist sites.

More: Coronavirus death toll balloons to 81; thousands infected, at least 5 US cases

At least 17 Chinese cities have imposed lockdowns affecting 50 million people. The outbreak has been linked to a seafood and meat market in Wuhan, China, and raised concerns about the health risks from largely unregulated sales of wildlife typical of the sites.

How New York is responding to the coronavirus

A health worker checks a Chinese passenger arriving on a bullet train from Wuhan to Beijing for symptoms of coronavirus. Train service from Wuhan has since been shut down to contain the spread of the virus. (Photo: Kevin Frayer/Getty Images)

Meanwhile, New York health officials were poised to handle the potential arrival of the first case as travelers were returning this week to the U.S. from New Year celebrations in China.

Authorities were posting multilingual signage about the virus at all four international airports under the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, Cuomo said.

The Health Department was also working with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to place informational signage on subways and busses.

Dozens of cities and states across the country continued to screen patients whose symptoms are consistent with the virus.

"All US cases traveled from Wuhan, China," the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in a statement. "More cases may be identified. However, risk to US general public is still considered low."

More:What to know about testing of potential coronavirus cases in New York

Last week, authorities began an airport entry screening program at John F. Kennedy International airport for passengers arriving from Wuhan, China. Chinese officials have since closed transport in and out of Wuhan and other cities in the province, including their international airports.

No passenger has required further evaluation as a result of the CDC-led passenger screening program at JFK, Cuomo's office said Sunday.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to pneumonia. Common signs of infection include fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. In more severe cases, infection can cause severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and death.

Coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted between animals and people. Chinese health officials said human-to-human transmission has been confirmed.

China Health Minister Ma Xiaowei said Sunday that the virus is capable of transmission even during the incubation period – before a patient shows symptoms – of one to 14 days.

That could make this outbreak more ominous than severe acute respiratory syndrome, SARS, a virus that was not contagious during incubation.

SARS killed more than 600 people across mainland China and Hong Kong along with more than 100 other people around the world in 2002-2003.

John Bacon of USA TODAY contributed to this report.

More: New York marijuana: 7 things to know about Gov. Cuomo’s bill to legalize recreational pot

David Robinson is the state health care reporter for the USA TODAY Network New York. He can be reached at drobinson@gannett.com and followed on Twitter: @DrobinsonLoHud

Read or Share this story: https://www.lohud.com/story/news/health/2020/01/27/why-coronavirus-testing-prompted-isolation-more-new-york-patients/4587178002/