CLOSE The CDC has expanded health screenings to two more US airports because of the coronavirus. Buzz60

Concern spread across the globe this week with the first reported American case of the respiratory illness-inducing coronavirus.

In Michigan and the rest of the country, however, the health risk to the public remains low, said Michigan Department of Health and Human Services spokeswoman Lynn Sutfin.

“People should not be panicking,” she said. “We don’t want them to do that because we do feel this is a low risk. That’s what we’re being told by the (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention), but, obviously, knowledge is power.”

Travelers wear face masks as they walk outside a train station in Yichang in southern China's Hubei province, Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020. (Photo: AP)

Sutfin recommended those concerned with the virus to go to the CDC website.

There have been no reports in Michigan of suspected cases of the coronavirus, she said.

Meanwhile, the U.S. government started additional health screenings for some international travelers and Chinese officials sought to stop travel from the source city on Thursday.

More: Chinese city halts all air, train traffic to contain spread of coronavirus that has killed 17

More: What is coronavirus, and should Americans be worried? What to know about the outbreak in China

With multiple indirect flights arriving from Wuhan to Detroit Metro Airport on Wednesday, here’s what you need to know:

What is a coronavirus?

Coronaviruses are a family of viruses that can cause illness in animals or people, according to the CDC.

Symptoms include a runny nose, a headache, a cough, a sore throat, and fever, but the virus also can cause pneumonia or bronchitis.

The virus of concern right now is a new coronavirus named 2019-nCoV causing respiratory illness, according to the CDC.

More: How to stay healthy on a plane as coronavirus, flu, colds raise travel concerns

Where’d it come from?

The first patients were detected with links to a seafood and animal market in the Chinese city of Wuhan, in the Hubei province, according to the CDC.

Now, it’s believed the virus is being transmitted from person to person.

“At this time, it’s unclear how easily or sustainably this virus is spreading between people,” according to the CDC.

Why the alarm?

The first U.S. case of the coronavirus was detected in a Washington man who traveled to Wuhan, the CDC revealed Tuesday.

More: First US case of coronavirus reported in Washington state, CDC says

Elsewhere, at least 17 deaths were blamed on the illness as of midday Wednesday, USA Today reported.

The outbreak also is causing concern because of similarities to the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), a coronavirus that killed more than 700 people worldwide in 2002-03, USA Today reports.

What’s being done to prevent the spread?

The World Health Organization has not yet declared the outbreak a public health emergency, saying Wednesday it needed more information, USA Today reports. The declaration is a prerequisite for issuing recommendations to countries on guidelines to combat the outbreak.

Still, Chinese media announced plans to stop travel out of Wuhan, starting Thursday.

Ahead of time in the U.S. on Friday, the CDC announced entry health screenings for the virus at airports receiving the most traffic from Wuhan: San Francisco International Airport, John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York and Los Angeles International Airport.

CDC officials on Tuesday announced plans for additional screenings at airports in Chicago and Atlanta, along with plans to reroute all flights from Wuhan to the five airports for the additional screenings.

As of Wednesday, it appeared some indirect flights from Wuhan were arriving at Detroit Metro Airport without stops at any of the five selected airports, according to flight statuses shown by individual airlines.

So, what about Michigan?

A spokeswoman for the Detroit Metro Airport directed questions to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the CDC.

Though Chief U.S. Customs and Border Protection Officer Ken Hammond did not respond to questions specific to Detroit, he released a statement noting the efforts made at the five U.S. airports.

“In coordination with the CDC, CBP has measures already in place to identify travelers with overt signs of illness at ports of entry who may be potentially infected with a communicable disease and to minimize the risk to the traveling public,” according to the statement. “This enhanced screening will be for symptoms specifically related to the 2019-nCoV and will be conducted by CDC personnel upon arrival.”

The CDC also did not respond to request for comment on how passengers would be screened at other points of entry, such as Detroit’s airport and the border with Canada.

U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Dearborn, demanded answers in a letter and news release on Tuesday, noting direct flights from areas where the virus has spread, including Beijing.

“Given the spread of this virus, as well as indications that human-to-human transmission is occurring, it is imperative that Congress and the American people be kept up-to-date on the latest steps that CDC is taking in light of these developments,” she said, according to the release.

Asked about any additional concerns at Detroit Metro Airport, Sutfin said there will always be concern for the spread of illness, such as the flu or common cold, at public gathering places.

Michiganders are more likely to come into contact with the flu or common cold, she said.

Cold prevention tactics such as washing hands and covering a cough can prevent the spread of illness, she said.

Contact Darcie Moran: dmoran@gannett.com.

Read or Share this story: https://www.freep.com/story/news/local/michigan/detroit/2020/01/23/wuhan-coronavirus-what-you-need-know-rep-dingell-demands-answers/4548529002/