Daijiworld Media Network - New Delhi (SHP)

New Delhi, Feb 9: Aviation regulator DGCA has henceforth banned the entry of foreigner who went to China on or after January 15.

As per a circular by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), "Foreigners who have been to China on or after January 15, 2020, are not allowed to enter India from any air, land or seaport including India-Nepal, Indo-Bhutan, Indo-Bangladesh or Indo-Myanmar land borders."

The decision comes when the toll due to the outbreak of novel coronavirus reached 814 in China on Sunday.

The circular, issued on Saturday, also reiterated that all visas, as well as e-visas issued to Chinese nationals before February 5, have been suspended with immediate effect.

"No Chinese national, as well as other foreigners presently in China, are allowed to travel to India on existing Regular (sticker) visa or e-visa, which they hold (issued before Feb 05, 2020). In case of compelling reasons to travel to India, such persons may get in touch with Embassy in Beijing or Consulates in Shanghai and Guangzhou for new visas," the circular said.

Meanwhile, the visa restrictions did not apply to the aircrew, who may either be Chinese nationals or other foreign nationalities coming from China.

The 2019-nCoV has infected people across the globe and new cases are surfacing every day. With a rise in the cases due to the virus outbreak, Indigo and Air India have temporarily suspended flight operations in and around China. The deadly virus that traces its origin in the local seafood market of Wuhan, capital of Hubei province in central China has surpassed the toll from the SARS epidemic 2003.

The contagious and life-threatening disease started in the middle of December and has spread to nearly 23 countries across the globe including Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, Japan, India, and the United States.

Many countries have also restricted their citizens from travelling to mainland China and also set up health camps at airports to screen passengers arriving from the East Asian country in the wake of the pneumonia outbreak.