This story was delivered to Business Insider Intelligence Connectivity & Tech subscribers earlier this morning.

To get this story plus others to your inbox each day, hours before they're published on Business Insider, click here.

Prominent Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo downgraded his Q1 2020 iPhone shipments forecast by 10%, reflecting coronavirus containment efforts that have disrupted markets, according to MacRumors.

Passengers wearing masks walk outside the Shanghai railway station in Shanghai Reuters

Over the weekend, Apple indefinitely closed its corporate offices and retail stores in China, a market that accounts for approximately 20% of Apple's global revenues, according to The Wall Street Journal. The measure is part of a concerted effort by the Chinese government and corporations to protect workers and civilians by limiting person-to-person contact.

The coronavirus is suppressing commerce in China at a moment when Apple appeared to be gaining momentum in the market. iPhone sales in China jumped 18% year-over-year (YoY) in December, likely in response to Apple's efforts to make phones more accessible through discounts and financing schemes, per Reuters.

But the coronavirus outbreak threatens to disrupt that momentum: The outbreak began in Wuhan just days before Lunar New Year, which is a peak consumer spending period in China. Coronavirus has infected over 17,000 people, eliciting travel bans, shopping center shutdowns, temporary work halts, and other preventative measures.

Furthermore, Chinese consumers may be less likely to spend on luxury items in the midst of economic uncertainty, as numerous companies have sent workers home for a waiting period. These conditions appear to have affected overall smartphone shipments in China, which fell 50% to 60% YoY during the Lunar New Year period, according to Kuo.

The revised iPhone shipments forecast also reflects potential virus-induced supply chain disruption. To curb the spread of coronavirus, the Chinese government enacted mandatory factory shutdowns affecting critical manufacturing hubs.

This led to Apple's primary manufacturer, Foxconn, shutting down "almost all" production in mainland China through February 10, anonymous sources told Reuters. Apple has intentional redundancy in its supply chain to protect against regional disruptions, and Foxconn — which also operates factories in Vietnam, India, and Mexico — says that it will continue to "meet all global manufacturing obligations."

However, a prolonged shutdown would surely have a deleterious impact on Apple's output — virtually all global iPhones are made in China, where Apple indirectly employs a workforce of over 3 million through its supply chain, per The Wall Street Journal.

The obstacles facing Apple likely portend a larger, industry-wide slowdown. The coronavirus outbreak threatens the consumer electronics industry in particular, as China is both a core manufacturing hub and core consumer market: The region accounted for 1.2 billion unique mobile subscribers at the end of 2018, nearly four times the size of the North American market, according to GSMA Intelligence.

The momentum and resources of the Chinese economy will not be easily replicated — "Made in China" initiatives have seen the government invest billions in advanced manufacturing sectors including telecommunications equipment and semiconductors. The impacts of the outbreak will likely be felt most acutely within early growth stage segments, the most notable of which in China would be 5G.

Want to read more stories like this one? Here's how to get access: