© Provided by Mercury News The coronavirus as it appears under a microscope. [CDC Image Library]

As the death toll in China from the novel coronavirus continues to mount, the number of cases in the U.S. from the outbreak reached 12 after Wisconsin health officials reported that a man who traveled frequently to Beijing had tested positive.

The case represents the first in the U.S. since Sunday, when three people in the Bay Area were confirmed to have the virus.

The Wisconsin Department of Health Services said the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed the latest case and that “the immediate health risk to the general public for contracting this virus is low.”

“We are responding aggressively to the situation and monitoring all developments,” said Wisconsin State Health Officer Jeanne Ayers. “We are committed to keeping the public fully informed and will continue to provide updates as this situation unfolds.”

Coronavirus: What you need to know

The newest case comes amid a largely successful effort to slow the virus’ spread outside of China where it emerged and prompted the World Health Organization to declare a public health emergency of international concern on Jan. 30.

Since the outbreak erupted in the Chinese city of Wuhan last month, Chinese officials reported that more than 31,000 people have been infected and more than 600 have died, most of them in mainland China, according to Reuters. Outside of China, WHO has reported 216 confirmed cases in 24 countries and one death in the Philippines. A death in Hong Kong was the second outside of mainland China.

In the U.S., half of the confirmed cases are in California, four of them in the Bay Area. In the last week, Santa Clara County confirmed two unrelated people were infected, neither requiring hospitalization. San Benito County officials Sunday confirmed a married couple were infected. They were transferred to a San Francisco hospital for treatment, and county officials said Thursday there have been no significant changes in their condition.

Confirmation of new cases is expected to come faster after federal health officials this week sent testing kits out to states, including to the Viral and Rickettsial Disease Laboratory in Richmond. Those labs are expected to start conducting tests Feb. 12 and report results within two days of receiving the specimens. Results from the CDC currently take between two to seven days.

U.S. authorities last month imposed restrictions including forbidding entry of foreign nationals and who recently traveled to China and imposing quarantines on American citizens returning from stricken areas in that country.

Symptoms of the virus include fever, cough and difficulty breathing, which may appear anywhere from two to 14 days after someone is exposed to the virus, health officials said.

Commercial flights to China have ground to a halt amid health concerns and plummeting demand, and charter planes carrying American evacuees from the country landed Wednesday and Thursday at military air fields where they will be under two-week quarantine and observation. One of those flights carried 178 evacuees who are being quarantined at Travis Air Force Base. The CDC said Wednesday that one small child on the flight is under observation at a nearby hospital for a fever.

In Southern California, a group of 195 Americans — mostly U.S. diplomats and their families — have been under quarantine at March Air Reserve Base since Jan. 29 after being evacuated from Wuhan, China, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak.

Among them were two children who were sent to Riverside University Health System-Medical Center after developing a fever. One was released back to the base Wednesday after testing negative for coronavirus, while tests are pending for the other. Additionally, a traveler who landed at Los Angeles International Airport on Monday and was transferred to the March air base has since been released after a short quarantine.

Wisconsin health officials described the latest patient only as an adult who had traveled to China to celebrate the Chinese New Year and was exposed while there. The patient was treated at UW Hospital and Clinics.

“The individual is isolated at home, and is doing well,” the Wisconsin health services department said in a statement. The department said it is evaluating close contacts of the patient and health care personnel who provided treatment, and is awaiting test results on six other people to determine if they are infected.

A Chinese doctor whom local police in the communist country had accused of “spreading rumors” after sounding an early warning about the outbreak in late December has died after coming down with the illness, a Chinese hospital reported.

Related Articles

The Wuhan Central Hospital said on its social media account that Dr. Li Wenliang, a 34-year-old ophthalmologist, was “unfortunately infected during the fight against the pneumonia epidemic of the new coronavirus infection.”

Though there have been only a dozen confirmed novel coronavirus infections in the U.S. and no deaths, the outbreak has caused alarm around the Bay Area, with one of the nation’s largest Chinese American communities and deep business ties to Asia.

Organizers of San Francisco’s Chinese New Year Festival and Parade scheduled said they still plan to hold the event Saturday but “are monitoring the situation with the guidance of the CDC, WHO, and local health authorities.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.