Sign up to FREE email alerts from Daily Record - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

Another person suspected of having deadly coronavirus is being tested in Scotland.

On Thursday, five patients were confirmed as being tested for the infection, but ministers announced they had been given the all-clear on Friday.

It was revealed on Saturday that an additional person had also tested negative for the virus.

As of Sunday afternoon, more than 50 people across England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland had been tested for the deadly flu-like virus, but so far all tests are confirmed as negative.

Health Protection Scotland has urged travellers returning from Wuhan who become unwell within a fortnight from a sore throat, cough or breathing difficulties to call their GP or NHS 24.

Health chiefs say the current risk to the public remains low, adding that the government is continuing to monitor the situation closely.

Britons trapped in the Chinese province at the centre of the outbreak have been urged to leave the area if they are able to do so.

The Foreign Office updated its guidance to “advise against all travel to Hubei province”, which has been on lockdown for several days as China seeks to contain the illness.

But the guidance also added: “If you are in this area and able to leave, you should do so. This is due to the ongoing novel coronavirus outbreak.”

Home Secretary Priti Patel said the government was “looking at all options” to help Britons leave Wuhan following reports that officials have been asked to examine the logistics for an airlift from the city.

It comes as spectators celebrated Chinese New Year in central London, which mark the start of the Year of the Rat.

Authorities in China have cancelled a host of events marking New Year as they expand their lockdown against the virus.

Meanwhile, health officials are continuing to track down around 2,000 people who have recently flown into the UK from Wuhan, the area of China worst affected by the outbreak.

The DoH confirmed it is trying to find “as many passengers as we can” who arrived from the region in the past two weeks to check on their wellbeing.

It is understood Border Force officers have been recruited to help speed up the search for passengers as testing for the virus continues in the UK.