CLOSE A new coronavirus has emerged, the latest of deadly viruses that have spread worldwide. Here's how a virus differs from a bacterial infection. Wochit

Editor's note: This story has been updated to include new details about the results of tests on samples from three of four people in Michigan.

A new suspected case of the novel coronavirus believed to have originated in Wuhan, China, has been identified in Washtenaw County, state health officials said Monday.

A sample from that person — the fourth from Michigan — was sent to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as the global coronavirus outbreak continues to grow.

Test results from the other three suspected Michigan cases, one from Macomb County and two from Washtenaw County, came back negative for the virus, state and county health officials announced Monday afternoon.

A mother and her children are seen wearing masks while walking through Singapore's Changi Airport Thursday. The airport has expanded temperature screenings for all travelers on flights arriving from China. (Photo: WALLACE WOON/EPA-EFE)

All four people in Michigan who were suspected of having the virus recently traveled to China.

While state health officials wait for results of the test from the fourth Michigander, the person is being isolated as a precaution to potentially prevent the virus from spreading.

"We are monitoring them at least twice per day," said Susan Ringler-Cerniglia, a spokeswoman from the Washtenaw County Health Department. "We have no new information about when to expect test results. There was no timeline provided for getting results."

The virus is spreading quickly around the world, with confirmed cases now reported in China, Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, Australia, Cambodia, Canada, France, Japan, Malaysia, Nepal, Singapore, Thailand, South Korea and Vietnam.

As of Monday morning, 81 people have died, and China's confirmed cases have ballooned to more than 2,700 since the coronavirus was discovered last month, USA Today reported. More than 40 cases have been confirmed in a dozen other countries.

Across the U.S., five people have confirmed coronavirus cases — in Arizona, California, Washington state and Illinois — and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports it is now testing 73 additional suspected cases.

The outbreak is linked to people who visited a large seafood and animal market in Wuhan, according to the CDC, which led public health officials to suspect human-to-animal transmission. But now, they say the virus is being spread from person to person.

Symptoms among those with confirmed cases of the virus range from mild to severe, and include:

Fever

Cough

Shortness of breath

The CDC reports that symptoms may appear in as few as two days after exposure or as long as 14 after exposure.

For now, the CDC is the only U.S. agency testing samples of suspected coronavirus cases. However, MDHHS officials said the Michigan State Laboratory is prepared to receive the specimens and send them to the CDC for testing. The CDC is working with the Federal Drug Administration and state public health laboratories to make testing more broadly available.

“At MDHHS, we recognize the potential threat associated with this virus and are working to identify any suspect cases in Michigan,” said Dr. Joneigh Khaldun, MDHHS chief medical executive and chief deputy for health. “Our goal is to quickly identify individuals with the virus and prevent any potential spread. We encourage health care providers to remain vigilant in screening patients for symptoms and travel history, and to contact their local health departments immediately if they see a potential case.”

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is screening people who travel from Wuhan to the United States for fevers and other signs of illness at airports in five U.S. cities — Atlanta (ATL), Chicago (ORD), San Francisco (SFO), New York (JFK) and Los Angeles (LAX).

Chinese authorities have suspended air and rail travel in the area around Wuhan. And the U.S. State Department issued a travel advisory urging Americans avoid travel to the central Chinese province of Hubei, which is where Wuhan is located. Anyone traveling to other parts of China are urged to take health precautions by:

Avoiding contact with sick people.

Avoiding animals, animal markets and uncooked meat.

Frequent hand washing with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available.

In addition, anyone who has traveled in the last 14 days to China and feels sick with fever, cough or is having difficulty breathing should:

Seek immediate medical care. However, before you go to a doctor’s office or emergency room, call ahead and tell them about your recent travel and your symptoms.

Avoid contact with others.

Not travel while sick.

Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.

Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available.

Contact Kristen Jordan Shamus: 313-222-5997 or kshamus@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter @kristenshamus.

Read or Share this story: https://www.freep.com/story/news/local/michigan/2020/01/27/wuhan-coronavirus-outbreak-michigan-cases/4589453002/