Sydney news: NSW police investigate Lethbridge Park stabbing, students return from China after coronavirus scare

Updated

Here's what you need to know this morning.

Police investigate stabbing death

Police are investigating the stabbing death of a man at a home in Sydney's west.

NSW police said emergency services were called to a home in Magellan Avenue in Lethbridge Park around 11:45pm on Sunday and found the man with a stab wound to the chest.

The man, believed to be in his 20s, was treated at the scene by NSW Ambulance but died shortly after.

A crime has been established.

Students return from China

NSW Health says only high school students who are well will be allowed back into the state from China.

Over the weekend, federal Education Minister Dan Tehan announced a partial relaxation of strict exemption laws for some senior high school Chinese students travelling back to Australia.

A spokeswoman for NSW health said returning students, and in some cases an accompanying parent or older sibling, would only be allowed to re-enter Australia if they were of good health, following screening at Sydney Airport.

She said they would follow the same strict self-isolation conditions which applied to Australian citizens and permanent residents coming back from China and the department would monitor their health.

Derailed train sent to Sydney

Part of the XPT train which derailed north of Melbourne last week, killing two people on board, will be sent to Sydney today for examination.

The XPT train was carrying 160 passengers from Sydney to Melbourne when it derailed at Wallan last Thursday evening, killing the train's driver and the train pilot.

A Transport for NSW spokesman said the rear power carriage and adjoining passenger carriage would travel via rail today to the XPT maintenance workshop in Tempe in Sydney's inner west.

He said the more damaged carriages, including where the driver and pilot were killed, would be loaded onto a truck later this week and taken to the workshop to be reviewed.

Commission to hear Indigenous experience

The treatment of Aboriginal people with intellectual impairments will be front and centre at the disability royal commission in Sydney today as the enquiry heads into its second week.

Several witnesses who live with intellectual disabilities will give evidence, including a mother who will share her experiences as an Indigenous woman in regional Australia.

Advocacy agencies including the Council for Intellectual Disability, as well as government agencies and medical experts are also set to give evidence.

Last week, the inquiry heard of a fractured health system where communication breakdowns are frequent and information on patients with disabilities was not properly shared.



Minors strip-searched at festival

Legal experts have questioned another incident of NSW police strip-searching underage children at a music festival in Sydney's west over the weekend.

Police said 11 children were strip-searched at the under 18's Good Life, Lost City music festival at Sydney's Olympic Park on Saturday, which resulted in several drug detections.

Lawyer Samantha Lee from Redfern Legal Centre said police should only strip-search as a last resort.

"It does cause children to be unsafe, it causes trauma and deep psychological harm," she said.

Fire containment continues

The NSW Rural Fire Service (RFS) says despite the milder weather conditions, around 20 bushfires continue to burn, mainly in the state's south.

Most of the fires are on the South Coast or in the Snowy Monaro region and RFS spokesman Greg Allen said only a couple were yet to be contained.

"Working around 20 fires at the moment across NSW, we still have 150 personnel working to slow the spread of fire and contain and fully extinguish the fires that are still burning," he said.



Monday's weather Partly cloudy. Min. Max. CBD 19 28 Parramatta 16 28

Partly cloudy.

Topics: law-crime-and-justice, police, death, indigenous-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander, government-and-politics, disabilities, disasters-and-accidents, drugs-and-substance-abuse, drug-offences, nsw, lethbridge-3332, sydney-2000

First posted