Representational Image | Photo Credit: PTI

Key Highlights The special Air India flight has been sent to Wuhan from Delhi today to evacuate Indian nationals living in the coronavirus-hit city

On Thursday, a Kerala student, who returned from Wuhan recently, was tested positive for coronavirus making her the first case in the country

New Delhi: Air India's special flight departed today from New Delhi to Wuhan, China for the evacuation of Indian nationals living in the Chinese city, which is the epicentre of deadly coronavirus outbreak. The development has come a day after a Kerala student, who returned from Wuhan, was tested positive with coronavirus, making him the first such case in India.

Ashwani Lohani, Air India CMD, confirmed that at least 400 Indians will be evacuated today from Wuhan today. The flight will take off at 12:30 pm and will return by 2 am tomorrow. There will be a layover of the special flight at Beijing Airport for 2-3 hours. Further arrangements will be done by the Minister of External Affairs (MEA) and the Health Ministry for passengers after they reach India, added the official.

Earlier on Thursday, the first case of coronavirus in India was reported from Kerala's Thrissur. A young woman studying at a university in Wuhan, the epicentre of coronavirus outbreak, was tested positive for the virus that has killed over 200 people across the world.

According to reports, when she arrived from China, she was quarantined along with four others in an isolation ward after she complained of fever and a sore throat. She is still in quarantine and the medical authorities have said that the virus is stable and there is nothing to worry.

Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared a world health emergency after the death toll in China from the coronavirus rose to 213. According to reports, nearly 10,000 people have been infected with the deadly virus across the world.

With India documenting its first case of the coronavirus, Russia has closed its land border with China for travellers. Reportedly, some 20 countries have confirmed positive cases of the coronavirus in people coming from China.