4 People Went Back To Work Even Though They Were On Leave Of Absence, MOM Voids Work Passes

After Singapore placed those who recently visited China on a 14-day leave of absence (LOA), the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) has been conducting random checks on workplaces to ensure those on LOA are complying with regulations.

MOM conducted the checks via home inspections, telephone or video calls.

The checks led them to discover 4 employees who were at their workplaces instead of serving their LOAs, according to MOM’s press release on 9 Feb.

Source

The 4 subsequently had their work passes revoked.

Work pass holders banned from working in Singapore

From 4 Feb to 8 Feb, MOM found 4 work pass holders at their workplaces although they were supposed to be on LOA.

MOM has since voided their work passes and repatriated the workers within 24 hours. On top of that, the ministry also banned them from working in Singapore permanently.

6 employers had their work pass privileges removed for 2 years, which means they can’t hire foreign employees during that period.

MOM also discovered 2 Permanent Residents (PRs), who were supposed to be on LOA, working at their workplace.

Both employers & employees responsible

The ministry emphasised both employers and employees “have a joint duty” to make sure employees follow the LOA regulations closely.

Failing to do so will result in voided work passes and suspension of work pass privileges.

It’s our civic duty, after all, to help minimise risk of infection. Intentional breach of protocols thus entails serious consequences.

Leave of absence for workers with 14-day travel history to China

Employers must get MOM’s permission before work pass holders with travel history to China within the last 14 days can enter or return to Singapore. This regulation has been in place since 8 February, 11.59pm.

Prepared space for those on LOA in a dormitory

Source

The notice allows the government to “stagger the return of these workers and manage the flow better”, said Minister for National Development Mr Lawrence Wong, who was quoted by Channel NewsAsia (CNA).

SCDF personnel assisting with temperature screening at the airport

Source

Upon their arrival in Singapore, they must serve their 14-day LOA.

Be responsible & follow protocol

These measures might seem overboard for those who feel that they are well. However, it is better to be safe than sorry.

Let’s all be responsible and fulfill our civic duties whether big or small.

Featured image adapted from Wikipedia.