None of the 91 people being quarantined at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland have shown signs of the novel coronavirus since their arrival Friday, according to U.S. Rep. Will Hurd who tweeted out an update Saturday afternoon.

“If anyone gets over a 100-degree fever they are taken for further medical evaluation, and that has not happened,” Hurd said, who was at Lackland to receive an update on the situation.

The evacuees will be quarantined for 14 days at the Gateway Inn on base. That's believed to be the maximum incubation period of the virus. Families are allowed to stay in rooms together and have access to medical staff 24 hours a day.

“None of those individuals have shown signs of the coronavirus before they came here and they are being checked multiple times a day,” Hurd said.

Just left Lackland Air Force Base in #SanAntonio where 91 individuals who were returned from China are being quarantined to check for signs of #coronavirus. Here’s an update: pic.twitter.com/lblsfvzSBq — Rep. Will Hurd (@HurdOnTheHill) February 8, 2020

Lackland is one of four bases in the U.S. housing 1,000 people who were evacuated from Wuhan, China, the center of an epidemic that has infected more than 34,000 people globally. The death toll has surpassed 700, including the first American, who officials reported on Saturday had died while in a hospital in China.

On ExpressNews.com: Dozens of coronavirus evacuees from China arrive in San Antonio

The evacuees at Lackland initially flew to Travis AFB in California Friday, where they were screened for signs of illness.

Jason McDonald, a CDC spokesman, said four of the 201 passengers who landed at Travis early Friday were being held in isolation at hospitals after showing possible symptoms.

The 91 evacuees in San Antonio have been issued a federal quarantine order, a legal document that prevents them from leaving until they are medically cleared. They are being cared for by trained contractors and guarded by federal marshals who patrol the fenced perimeter of the Gateway Inn.

Now Playing:

“This quarantine is an unprecedented step,” Hurd said. “It hasn’t been done in 60 years. Last time it was done during smallpox. This is an extraordinary measure taken in order to protect public safety.”

Those who come in contact with the evacuees are outfitted in personal protective gear — gowns, gloves, masks, and respirators. They are responsible for the evacuees' food, housekeeping, and laundry needs. Federal officials have said that no one else on the base will have contact with the evacuees.

The people in quarantine undergo temperature screens twice daily. Anyone with a fever of 100.4 degrees or above, or other signs of illness, such as coughing, sneezing or shortness of breath will then undergo further medical evaluations.

People suspected of having coronavirus will be transported to a local hospital by emergency medical service providers. Federal and San Antonio public health officials have repeatedly declined to identify which hospitals would receive patients in that event.

“The reason they were brought to Lackland, here in San Antonio, is the medical system of San Antonio,” Hurd said.

A dozen cases have been reported in the U.S.: Arizona, California, Illinois, Massachusetts, Washington and Wisconsin, including two instances of local transmission. However, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention officials have continued to stress that the risk of the general public contracting coronavirus is low.

“If you have been to China in the last 14 days and you show any signs of the flu or you have an elevated temperature go see a doctor,” Hurd said. “And don’t go to China until the Chinese government sorts out this epidemic.”