The video will start in 8 Cancel

Sign up to FREE email alerts from Mirror - daily news Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

The ground zero of China's coronavirus outbreak has been completely locked down with flights grounded, the main train station shut and motorways blocked.

Wuhan - a city of 11million people - has become a "ghost town" as it is cut off from the outside world in a desperate bid to prevent the deadly SARS-like virus from spreading even further.

Flights from Wuhan to London are among those halted.

A second Chinese city, neighbouring Huanggang, which is home to seven million, has also been locked down as health authorities in China and around the world scramble to prevent a global pandemic.

A new strain of coronavirus - believed to have originated at a live animal and seafood market in Wuhan - has so far killed 17 people and infected about 600 others, according to official figures.

Have you been affected by coronavirus? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

But the number of cases could be much higher and there are fears that it could morph into a global pandemic as people infected with the virus travel by air and rail outside of China.

It is suspected that coronavirus emerged late last month from illegally traded wildlife at a market, and one study by medical experts suggests it may have originated in snakes, with a link to bats.

Government medical adviser Zhong Nanshan had also identified badgers and rats as possible sources.

(Image: wenyunchao/Twitter)

An Irish teacher living in Wuhan has been holed up in his flat as the deadly SARS-like infection spreads.

Ben Kavanagh, from Co Kildare, hasn't left his home for "two or three days".

Flights have stopped at the local airport and bus, train and ferry services have been halted to prevent people from travelling.

Toll booths were closed and roadblocks were set up on the outskirts of the city.

(Image: Twitter)

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

Mr Kavanagh, who is on a break from work due to the Lunar New Year holiday in China, said he will have to leave his home soon and venture out into the "ghost town" to stock up on food.

When he does, he will wear a surgical mask over his mouth and nose and swimming goggles over his eyes to protect himself.

Mr Kavanagh told RTE Radio’s Morning Ireland: “You are allowed out, but there are so many rumours and people are worried, it’s better not to.

“It’s almost like a ghost town.”

(Image: AFP via Getty Images) (Image: AFP via Getty Images)

Mr Kavanagh said there was a suggestion that the virus can spread through contact with the eyes and as a result people were wearing eye protection in addition to masks.

He added: “I have enough water for a few more days, but I will probably have to head out to the shops for food.”

The teacher plans to wear a mask over his face and swimming goggles over his eyes when he leaves his flat.

“I have no idea what to expect,” he said.

(Image: REUTERS) (Image: AFP via Getty Images)

He said a dual carriageway near his home is normally very busy but is now quiet, and

Mr Kavanagh has heard that the price of some items at the supermarket, including celery, had tripled amid the panic in Wuhan.

Wuhan's airport and main train station were both deserted on Thursday as hospitals and clinics were overrun by worried locals who wanted to be checked to find out if they have coronavirus.

Toll booths had shut down, effectively cutting off road access.

Guards were patrolling major highways, one resident told Reuters.

(Image: REUTERS)

London's Heathrow Airport confirmed that flights from Wuhan have been halted.

There was panic as shoppers stormed a store that sells masks, cleared out supermarket shelves, queued for petrol and thronged into hospitals for checks.

All Lunar New Year celebrations have been cancelled in Wuhan and other major cities, including Beijing.

Huanggang, a city just east of Wuhan, announced it would suspended public bus and train services at the end of the day on Thursday.

"The lockdown of 11 million people is unprecedented in public health history, so it is certainly not a recommendation the WHO has made," Gauden Galea, the World Health Organisation's representative in Beijing, told Reuters.

Health officials fear this new strain of coronavirus will spread rapidly as hundreds of millions of Chinese residents travel domestically and abroad for the week-long Lunar New Year holiday, which begins Saturday.

There are fears it is already spreading worldwide, with cases reported in the US, Japan, South Korea, Thailand and Taiwan.

Imperial College London said the number of cases is likely far higher than what has been reported in China.

It said it estimated a total of 4,000 cases in Wuhan alone as of January 18.

There is no vaccine for the virus, which can spread from human to human through respiratory transmission.

Symptoms include fever, difficulty in breathing and cough, similar to many other respiratory illnesses, and it can lead to pneumonia.

A World Health Organisation panel of experts met on Thursday to evaluate whether the outbreak constitutes an international emergency.

They were holding a second closed-door meeting after failing to reach a decision on Wednesday.