Cruise lines will ban passengers and crew who have recently travelled to China as fears grow over the deadly coronavirus that has killed hundreds of victims.

A global cruising industry body said today that its members worldwide will deny boarding to anyone who has visited China in the last two weeks.

In a statement, the Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA) said its members were taking extra precautions to prevent an outbreak of the virus on board cruise ships, where infections can spread rapidly.

The announcement comes after a cruise ship carrying 7,000 passengers was quarantined in Italy while tests were carried out on two people on board.

Those on the Costa Smeralda were quarantined in port city of Civitavecchia, near Rome, after a woman fell ill on Thursday.

Passengers were later allowed to leave when it was discovered the husband and wife did not have the coronavirus.

Passengers on the Costa Smeralda cruise ship (pictured) as it sat docked at the Italian port of Civitavecchia following a health alert due to a Chinese couple who were tested for coronavirus

Stranded tourists disembarking from the Costa Smeralda cruise ship on Friday after the vessel was quarantined following two passengers showing symptoms of new coronavirus

A day later however, Italian authorities confirmed the country's first cases of the virus after two Chinese tourists tested posted positive for the illness.

It was discovered the couple had visited Verona, Parma and Rome before they were quarantined in the Paltino hotel in Rome.

The cruise companies were also carrying out careful screening of passengers and crew before boarding, and changing itineraries where necessary, CLIA said.

CLIA's Hamburg office said: 'CLIA Members have suspended crew movements from mainland China and will deny boarding to any individual, whether guest or crew, who has travelled from or through mainland China within the previous 14 days.'

The industry body added that cruise ships were well equipped to deal with health emergencies.

CLIA represents some of the world's largest and best-known cruise lines, including TUI, AIDA, MSC, Costa, Royal Caribbean and Carnival Cruises.

The Costa Smeralda cruise ship docked in the Civitavecchia port on Thursday. It was later revealed that the two Chinese passengers tested for the virus were negative

A bus leaving the harbour where the Costa Smeralda cruise ship is docked in Civitavecchia on Thursday as thousands of stranded tourists were free to leave

'The cruise industry is one of the most well-equipped and experienced when it comes to managing and monitoring health conditions of passengers and crew,' the statement said.

All ships are fitted with medical facilities and have medical professionals 'available around the clock', it added.

The SARS-like virus that first emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan last month has infected more than 17,000 people and killed over 360 so far.

It has spread to more than 24 countries, including Australia, Germany and Japan.

In a sign of growing anxiety, more than 6,000 tourists were temporarily confined to their cruise ship at an Italian port last week after two Chinese passengers fell ill.

They later tested negative for the coronavirus.