South Korean Soldiers Positive For COVID-19, 7700 Others Quarantined

SOUTH KOREAN SOLDIERS COVID-19 – Eleven service members of the South Korean military army have been confirmed positive for the new coronavirus, COVID-19.

Image from: New Straits Times

According to a report from Yonhap News Agency, eight COVID-19 patients were in the Army and one each from the Navy, Air Force, and the Marine Corps.

Meanwhile, the four newly confirmed soldiers were suspected to have exposed themselves to the virus following contact with infected patients inside the barracks.

Due to the outbreak, downtown Daegu became empty. Many restaurants, bars, real estate offices, and tour agencies have shut down as traffic nosedived. People stayed home ordering food and supplies online.

As South Korea experienced a leap in the number of confirmed cases over the past days, the President ordered that the country to placed under Red Alert.

Under the highest alert level, authorities could implement temporary closures of high-density public places such as schools, and reduce transportation and flights to and from South Korea.

The President of South Korea stated that the outbreak had reached a crucial watershed. He added that the next few days would be critical.

Most of the clusters linked to the spread of COVID-19 were from a religious group in the southeastern city of Daegu and a hospital in Cheongdo.

As per the report, the authorities have checked all service personnel with a history of visiting the regions or having contact with patients infected with the virus. Meanwhile, 7,700 soldiers are being isolated at their bases.

Meanwhile, China had confirmed thousands of COVID-19 cases bringing the total to 77,000. However, the spike in global cases from the virus has had experts worried.

This was due to the fact that most of the clusters have shown no link to recent travel abroad to China.

Like this article? READ ALSO: South Korea Virus Case Rises Along with Other Countries

comment(s) for this post "South Korean Soldiers COVID-19 Positive – Philippine News". Tell us what you think abut this post by leaving your comments below.