Many organizations have called in for a Bharat Bandh against CAA, NRC on Wednesday.

Key Highlights Scroll down for the biggest news events in India and more.

New Delhi: It is expected to be a big day of newsbreaks with politics over Citizenship (Amendment) Act heating up, Rajinikanth’s ‘Man vs Wild’ shoot and more. Check out the day’s news schedule:

Bharat Bandh announced by anti-CAA, NRC protestors

Many organizations have called in for a Bharat Bandh against CAA, NRC on Wednesday. The Bharat Bandh has been announced by Bahujan Kranti Morcha, which is also supported by many Dalit organizations. Moreover, European Parliament will discuss India’s anti-CAA resolution today as well.

Nirbhaya case: Convicts continue with delay tactics

A bench headed by Justice Banumathi will deliver verdict in plea filed by death row convict Mukesh challenging denial of mercy plea by President. The judgment would mark Mukesh exhausting all his legal remedies. The hanging is fixed for February 1 though it looks highly unlikely with other convicts also seeking legal remedies.

Bhopal gas tragedy: SC to hear curative plea by Centre

A five-judge constitution bench will today hear the curative petition filed by the Centre in connection with 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy. The central government had filed a curative petition in the Supreme Court in 2011 with regard to additional compensation for the victims of the terrible incident.

Rajinikanth shoots for ‘Man Vs Wild’ with Bear Grylls in Bandipur

The superstar shot for an episode of popular global show ‘Man Vs Wild’ with Bear Grylls and the news had already created buzz about him being injured, which was denied by his office.

PFI leaders summoned by Enforcement Directorate

PFI leaders and the office bearers of Rehab India have been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). This is in alleged links with the funding of anti-CAA protests.

Coronavirus relief for Indians

China has approved India's request to fly its citizens out of Wuhan. An Air India plane is headed to China soon to pick up the Indian citizens. Meanwhile, new cases are being reported across India.

Final hearing in ED petition against pre-arrest bail to Karti and P Chidambaram

The court will conduct the hearing in the Aircel Maxis case. The father-son duo has been granted anticipatory bail by the trial court.

Sports events today

India vs New Zealand 3rd T20I

AC Milan vs Torino (COPA Italia)

Aston Villa vs Leicester City (EFL)

Valencia vs leones

Villareal vs Vallecano

Aus Open (QF) 3

Aus Open (QF) 4

NEROCA vs Punjab (i-league)

U-19 WC: West Indies vs New Zealand

Zimbabwe vs Sri Lanka, 2nd Test Day 3

Odisha vs Goa (ISL)

Hyderabad Hunters vs NorthEastern Warriors

