China’s Hebei Province Demolishes Real Estate Project Because Buildings Are ‘Illegal’

When people think of crime, the usual stereotypes pop up in their minds; theft, assault, and drug-related offenses are so common in America that we sometimes forget how many forms of insidious crimes there are. From the corruption of bribery to the power behind fraud, the effects of criminal activity can extend far beyond the act itself.

Such is the case with the real estate scandal in North China’s Hebei province. The average real estate transaction involves 86 people from start to finish.After media reports pointed the local government in the right direction, a massive real estate project was discovered to have been built and sold illegally. While this was a problem in and of itself, the main issue came from the fact that several of the buildings were built on the slopes of a mountain.

In the United States, property owners are required to take out insurance. For example, title insurance for a home usually costs 0.5% of the home’s purchase price — and that’s in addition to homeowner’s insurance. Commercial property insurance can cost far more. Of course, most insurance products are designed to protect against egregious fraud.

Trouble In China

Fenglong Mountain is located in the Luquan district in the western area of Shijiazhuang city, capital of Hebei. The beautiful peak is a popular destination, and one that is protected by the government of Shijiazhuang. Real estate developer Shijiazhuang Lihao Real Estate Development Co Ltd decided to ignore the regulations in place when they started to construct their 1.2 million square meter project; by taking advantage of the mountain’s natural resources in the hopes they would reel in buyers, 24 villas (covering 12,667 square meters) were built on Fenglong’s slopes at the cost of destroying the mountain and its forest.

Amazingly, this isn’t the first time the developer has skimped on its homework. In 2017, the company was fined 624 million yuan ($92 million) for constructing 109 buildings without permission; the fine has not yet been paid. Because many believe corruption was involved in order to get as far as they did, Hebei’s Party Chief Wang Dongfeng requested an immediate and thorough investigation.

Since the project’s discovery, the Shijiazhuang government has demolished 10 of the 24 illegal buildings and has no plans to stop.

Across The Pacific

Americans love to believe that this kind of crime couldn’t possibly be committed on our own soil — after all, 78% of recent home buyers considered their real estate agent to be trustworthy and knowledgeable— but the truth is somewhat different. While we don’t see that much evidence of corruption, there are other legal issues regarding real estate, such as illegal property flipping: con artists purchase properties with the intent to re-sell them at exorbitantly high fees despite the fact that very little improvements were made.

On the other end of the spectrum is illegal real estate fees — examples include overcharges, hidden and undisclosed fees, and refund refusals.

If you find yourself in any of these situations, you’ll need to contact one of the 1.3 million lawyers this country possesses to ensure you get your money back. While the damage may not be as serious as the destruction of an ancient mountain, you deserve to fight for your losses.