pune

Updated: Jan 25, 2020 14:24 IST

Three people from Pune who recently returned from China’s Wuhan have been kept under telephonic medical supervision by doctors from the state health ministry for possible Coronavirus infection.

Although all three do not show any signs or symptoms’ of being infected through the virus, the state health ministry is keeping a check on them through telephonic supervision.

State health director Archana Patil said, “All three have recently returned from Wuhan in China. This is the third day of their return from China and although they have not showed any symptoms of being affected by the virus, we are keeping a check on them through telephonic supervision. They have been sent to their homes from Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport when they returned from China.”

Patil refused to disclose any information regarding the patients but confirmed that they were least possible to be infected by the virus.

Since the outbreak of Corona virus, ministry of health and state government has issued strict guidelines and advisory to civic bodies and government hospitals.

Wuhan was one of the first places to be hit by the new virus named Coronavirus. This respiratory disease spreads through air by exposure to cough droplets of the infected person. The symptoms include cold, cough, difficulty in breathing, and pneumonia. Till now China, Japan, South Korea, Thailand and America have reported corona virus infected patients.

Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official Sanjay Wavare from the health department said, “Since there are no direct flights from China to Pune, all the visitors and people returning from China are being screened at the Mumbai airport itself and accordingly being screened or sent to their native places. No case has been detected yet from Pune.”

Isolation wards prepped at Naidu, Sassoon hospitals

In view of the coronavirus scare, the civic-run Naidu hospital and the state government-run Sassoon general hospital will start isolation wards with infection prevention facilities.

The nursing staff in these hospitals has been trained for necessary precaution and safety procedure in case any infected patient or a suspected patient is admitted in these wards.

Dr Sanjay Wavare, assistant health commissioner, said, “The isolation wards will have approximately six to seven cots and will be separate from the rest of the patients. The nursing staff will be trained to provide basic nursing care for these patients and so accordingly the facilities will be provided.”

Wavare further added that the staff will also be issued guidelines as to identify symptoms and take necessary precaution while attending to these patients. He further said, “It is not quite likely that any infected person would come to the city as all visitors from China and infected countries are being screened at the Mumbai airport. Also, if anyone is suspected of being infected then they are being admitted to Mumbai’s Kasturba hospital for further treatment. So there is hardly any chance that the virus would enter the city.”

Wavare further said that any suspected patients or person returning from China is kept under supervision for over 28 days and also it is not likely that the symptoms appear late.