CLOSE Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, discusses spread of disease and flow of information from China. USA TODAY

As cases of the new coronavirus continue to spread around the world, Michigan health officials confirmed Friday that about 325 people in the state are being monitored for symptoms.

Those people are not in a quarantine facility, said Lynn Sutfin, a spokeswoman for the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services. Rather, they are being asked to self-isolate at home because they are considered at moderate risk or low risk for contracting the virus now named COVID-19.

"The screening process has not identified any individuals as being at high risk of infection" in Michigan, Sutfin said. "However, those who are identified as being at medium risk, a group that includes all returning residents who have been to mainland China during the two weeks before their return, are being asked to practice home quarantine as much as possible and are contacted daily by local public health for the remainder of the 14-day period with a symptom check."

Those 325 people were either identified at U.S. airports during enhanced health screening checks or were passengers on cruise ships that had a confirmed COVID-19 case, Sutfin said. And some of them have already completed the recommended 14 days of isolation at home, and have returned to normal life.

Medical personnel scan a new coronavirus patient at a hospital in Wuhan, China, on Feb. 16, 2020. (Photo: Chinatopix via AP)

Five people in Michigan have been tested for the virus, and all five results were negative, she said.

As of Friday, COVID-19 has infected at least 76,000 people globally, with the vast majority in mainland China, and has killed more than 2,200 people, according to the World Health Organization.

"This new virus represents a tremendous public health threat," said Dr. Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

More: Onsted family from cruise rerouted by coronavirus returns home

More: Coronavirus outbreak: Sterling Heights woman is on quarantined cruise ship in Japan

More: US to evacuate Americans — including a Michigander — on cruise ship amid virus outbreak

Mask-clad passengers prepare to board a bus after disembarking from the Diamond Princess cruise ship, in quarantine due to fears of new COVID-19 coronavirus, at Daikoku pier cruise terminal in Yokohama on Feb. 21, 2020. Hundreds of people have been allowed to leave the ship after testing negative for the disease and many have returned to their home countries to face further quarantine. (Photo: PHILIP FONG, AFP via Getty Images)

"We don't yet have a vaccine for this novel virus, nor do we have a medicine to treat it specifically. We are now taking and will continue to take unprecedented aggressive action to reduce the impact of this virus."

"We are working with state, local and territorial health departments ... to respond to local cases in the possibility this outbreak could become a pandemic."

COVID-19 can cause symptoms that are mild, such as a runny nose, sore throat, cough, and fever, or can be more severe, leading to pneumonia and difficulty breathing. For some people, it's deadly.

Older people and those with preexisting medical conditions like diabetes or heart disease may be more likely to develop severe symptoms, the World Health Organization (WHO) reported.

So far, there are 34 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the United States, Messonnier said.

Of them, 13 are among Americans with recent travel to China or close contact with someone who recently traveled to China.

The remaining 21 cases of COVID-19 in the U.S. are people who were brought back from abroad on U.S. State Department-chartered flights, Messonnier said.

Three of them returned to the U.S. on repatriation flights from the Hubei Province of China, which is considered the epicenter of the outbreak.

Personnel in hazmat suits are seen in the cargo hold of the Kalitta Air Boeing 747-400 freighter at the March Air Reserve Base after deplaning 200 American evacuees in Riverside, California Jan. 29, 2020. The plane left Wuhan, epicenter of the coronavirus epidemic, to Anchorage, Alaska, to refuel and screen the passengers before departing for March Air Reserve Base where the evacuated U.S. citizens will be taken care of by the CDC. (Photo: Etienne Laurent, EPA-EFE/REX)

Eighteen Americans were on the Diamond Princess cruise ship, which was quarantined in Yokohama Harbor in Japan in early February after a passenger tested positive for the virus. Since then, 634 passengers and crew on the ship have confirmed cases of the COVID-19 and two people have died.

"Because the passengers on the Diamond Princess were in a close setting where there has been a significant spread of COVID-19 ... they are considered at high risk for infection and we do expect to see additional confirmed cases of COVID-19 among the passengers," Messonnier said.

"Additionally, since many of these people are over the age of 60, we are also prepared for other medical issues to arise that will require hospitalization. We are going to do everything we can to make their quarantine as easy as possible while monitoring them to see if they develop illness."

She noted that several Americans with COVID-19 who also were on the Diamond Princess remain hospitalized in Japan and are "seriously ill."

"Sadly, we may see poor outcomes in others, not just people who were on board the Diamond Princess, but among others who become sick with this virus," Messonnier said.

"I want to be clear that we are not seeing community spread here in the United States yet," Messonnier said. "But it is very possible, even likely, that it may eventually happen."

This is a 3D atomic-scale map of the 2019-nCoV spike protein. The protein takes on two different shapes, called conformations--one before it infects a host cell and another during infection. This structure represents the protein before it infects a cell, called the prefusion conformation. (Photo: Contributed Photo/University of Texas)

The number of cases in the U.S. remains low, Messonnier said, because of tight travel restrictions and quarantines being taken at the federal level.

"Despite the increasing cases in China and around the world, we believe our aggressive travel precautions are working," Messonnier said.

"Our goal continues to be slowing the introduction of the virus into the U.S. This buys us more time to prepare our communities for more cases and possibly sustained spread."

On Jan. 31, President Donald Trump signed a proclamation barring entry into the U.S. of foreign nationals with recent travel to China. The order did not apply to U.S. citizens, permanent residents, diplomats, commercial flight crews and some others.

The State Department issued a do not travel advisory Feb. 2 for mainland China because of the risk of novel coronavirus. And earlier this week, it recommended that Americans reconsider trips aboard cruise ships in Asia.

Among the preparations the CDC is taking is to create test kits so individual state health labs can collect samples and do their own testing using CDC protocols.

Sutfin said a test kit from CDC arrived in Michigan on Feb. 8 so the state DHHS lab could conduct its own coronavirus testing.

"However, during the verification process, Michigan, like many public health laboratories around the country, found that one component had problems and was providing invalid results," Sutfin said. "We are awaiting a new kit from CDC."

In the meantime, Sutfin said, all tests will continue to be sent to the CDC lab in Atlanta.

Messonnier said that the low number of U.S. infections is good news, "especially given what we are seeing in some countries in Asia, which are beginning to experience community spread.

"This is when cases are detected in the community, but it's not known what the source of the infection was. This is being reported in Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam as well as Hong Kong and Japan. ... We never expected that we would catch every single traveler with novel coronavirus returning from China given the nature of this virus and how it's spreading. That would be simply impossible."

But she said U.S. health officials are preparing for the possibility that COVID-19 could become a pandemic with widespread infection.

"The day may come when we may need to implement such measures in the United States," she said.

Contact Kristen Jordan Shamus: 313-222-5997 or kshamus@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter @kristenshamus.

Read or Share this story: https://www.freep.com/story/news/health/2020/02/21/coronavirus-michigan-covid-19-united-states-spread/4832013002/