© Provided by dw.com

The number of lives claimed by a new coronavirus jumped to over 300 on Saturday, according to Chinese authorities.

The 45 victims brought the number of lives claimed by the virus from 259 up to 304. All of the deaths reported on Saturday were in central Hubei province, the epicenter of the virus outbreak.

Out of those whose deaths were reported on Saturday, 32 were in Wuhan, the provincial capital of Hubei province. The number of those infected in Hubei also rose with 1,921 new cases recorded on Saturday, taking total infected with coronavirus to more than 14,380, according to Chinese authorities.

Around the world, several countries have so far reported cases of the flu-type virus and governments stepped up their response to the disease. Australia on Saturday joined the US and Singapore in banning foreign nationals who on Friday banned anyone who has recently been in China from entering their territories.

More than 3,000 Hong Kong nurses and doctors also on Saturday voted in favor of closing the semi-autonomous city's borders with Mainland China to stem the spread of the virus.

Germany Coronavirus evacuees quarantined

In Germany, 124 evacuees, including 102 with German nationality, arrived on a German Air Force Airbus on Saturday evening at Frankfurt airport from Wuhan, China.

They were transported to military barracks in Germersheim, about 120 kilometers south of Frankfurt, where they will be under observation for 14 days.

A total of 11 returnees were taken to the Frankfurt university clinic, with one woman suspected of being infected with the 2019-nCoV virus.

"One case is a so-called case-in-clarification," said Kai Klose, minister for social affairs and integration in the state of Hesse. The other 10 patients were suffering from medical complaints that were not connected with the virus. Germany on Saturday had eight confirmed cases of the virus.

A further German national was also infected with the virus in Spain, reported the Spanish ministry for health on Saturday. The man will be treated in isolation on the canary island of La Gomera, said the ministry. He had been in close contact with an infected person in Germany before travelling to Spain.

China speaks out against the guidelines

China spoke out on Saturday against the US response to the virus, saying that it went against WHO guidelines.

"While the WHO has only just specifically advised against any travel restrictions, the US has decided to act in the opposite way. This has set a bad example. It is certainly not a gesture of goodwill," ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said.

kmm/bw (dpa,AFP, AP, Reuters)

DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.