Sign up to FREE email alerts from Mirror - daily news Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

Iran's Supreme Leader has said missile strikes on US bases in Iraq were a "slap in the face" for America.

In a televised speech, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said the regime's priority is still to remove US troops from the region.

Iran launched missile attacks on US-led forces in Iraq in the early hours of this morning in retaliation for the U.S. drone strike that killed top general Qassem Soleimani.

Khamenei told Iranians: "Last night we slapped them on the face.

"When it comes to confrontation, military actions like this is not sufficient.

"What is important is ending the corrupting presence of America in the region."

For the latest on the crisis, click here

(Image: REUTERS)

The Supreme Leader also ruled out any resumption of talks with Washington about a 2015 nuclear deal.

He described Soleimani as a "great, brave warrior" as supporters chanted "death to America".

Khamenei also said the United States was trying to remove Lebanon's Iranian-aligned movement Hezbollah in its bid to help Israel.

Iran's president Hassan Rouhani vowed that the US would be removed from the region.

Speaking after a cabinet meeting this morning, Fars News Agency reports, he said: "You cut (General) Soleimani's hand from his body, your foot will be cut from the region."

The missile attacks on US targets in Iraq were described as "legitimate self-defence" by Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, who told state TV that Washington's assessment to retaliate should not be based on "illusions".

"Our action was a legitimate self-defence and the United States should avoid assessing it based on illusions," Zarif said.

He had earlier written on Twitter that Iran had "concluded proportionate measures in self-defence", saying that Tehran did "not seek escalation" but would defend itself against further aggression.

Iranian TV reports claim 80 US personnel were killed, although the US President appears to have denied this.

In the aftermath of Iran's attack, US President Donald Trump tweeted "All is well!" and added "So far, so good" in relation to casualties.

Iranian leaders have warned the US against striking back following the bombings.

Major General Mohammad Hossein Baqeri said the Iran would fight back with more force if the US responded.

“From now on, any new evil act by the US will face a stronger and more crushing response with a broader range,” according to Tasnim News Agency.

(Image: KHAMENEI.IR/AFP via Getty Images)

“The time has come for the evil authorities of the United States to realize the Islamic Republic of Iran’s capabilities in a greater extent of global geography, adopt a principled approach, and pull the forces of their terrorist army out of the region as soon as possible.

“From now on, any new evil act by the US will face a stronger and more crushing response with a broader range.”

This morning China called for calm between the US and Iran.

"The worsening of the situation in the Middle East region is not in any side's interests," Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said during a daily briefing.

China has criticised the United States for aggravating tension in the Middle East through its use of force in the standoff between Washington and Tehran.

An editorial on Tuesday in the government-run China Daily blamed the U.S. for creating a "cauldron of tensions" in the region.