BRITS in coronavirus-hit China were stranded yesterday as French evacuees prepared to flee on an EU jet.

They will be left behind as a plane today leaves Wuhan, where coronavirus is said to have originated from, with 250 French on board.

4 Coronavirus - Brit Graham Hubbard, 39, was on a work trip when Wuhan was put on lock-down

4 Medical staff from the community health station walks in ghost city Wuhan as the killer-virus hit China Credit: Getty Images - Getty

The news came as the Foreign Office warned against all but essential trips to mainland China.

Its updated advice follows more than 100 snake flu deaths.

Today’s escape flight was part-funded by the European Commission under a humanitarian aid policy.

As the mechanism was triggered by Paris officials, French nationals will fill the plane.

A second airlift of 100 EU nationals is set for tomorrow but it is unclear if any Brits will be aboard.

In a statement, the EC said it “does not forget its citizens in need wherever they are in the world”.

Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said: “We are working urgently to finalise arrangements for an assisted departure from Hubei province for British nationals."

“The UK continues to be guided by the latest medical advice about the coronavirus outbreak.”

4 Veronica is stranded in Wuhan with her grandson Kharn Credit: ITV

4 Hundreds of construction workers are building new hospitals in Wuhan to tackle the coronavirus Credit: Getty Images - Getty

MOST READ IN NEWS ITALY LOCKDOWN Italy quarantines 16 MILLION over coronavirus crisis & weddings banned Live Blog VIRUS BREAKDOWN Coronavirus LIVE: Israel closes border with Egypt over coronavirus fears VIRAL DESERT Coronavirus fears leave beaches, squares and airports empty of tourists MY VIRUS HELL First Brit coronavirus victim reveals how bug left him struggling to breathe STUPOR SPREADER Coronavirus patient ‘goes on boozy pub crawl to deliberately spread bug’ 'IT'S NOT MAD MAX' Coronavirus panic as women filmed brawling over last toilet roll in shop

But about 300 Brits in Wuhan, the city at the centre of the outbreak, said they felt abandoned.

Graham Hubbard, 39, was on a work trip when the city was locked down.

The dad of three, from Wantage, Oxon, said: “The Foreign Office response has been hopeless. We want to leave but we can’t.”

Coronavirus chaos as Government doesn't know how many British nationals are stranded in 'ground zero Wuhan'