The new coronavirus that has sickened tens of thousands and killed hundreds in China can survive only a few hours on surfaces.

That means Pennsylvanians need not worry about catching it from mail or packages from China, said Dr. Raghavendra Tirupathi, an infectious disease specialist and medical director for the Pennsylvania Medical Society.

He discussed the new coronavirus on Friday morning as the medical society receives questions about possible impacts in the state.

Pennsylvanians presently have little to fear, according to Tirupathi.

“Flu is a much bigger threat than coronavirus,” he said, noting flu has sickened about 60,000 people in Pennsylvania and killed 40 during the flu season that will last about three more months.

He also expressed optimism the steps already underway to limit the spread of the new coronavirus will spare the United States from a major outbreak.

Still, Tirupathi noted the situation is still “evolving,” and it’s impossible to predict the final result.

The new coronavirus continues to spread rapidly in China, which had 31,161 confirmed cases and 636 deaths as of Friday morning.

Someone in Pennsylvania needs to worry only if they traveled to China within the past 14 days, or have been around someone who did. If someone in that situation develops symptoms such as fever and cough, they should quickly seek medical care, Tirupathi said.

They should also call ahead to their doctor’s office or the ER, so health care providers can prepare to isolate them from other patients, he said.

Coronaviruses commonly spread among humans and cause the common cold. They are also carried by animals, and every so often one proves able to spread from animals to humans — as did the one that first appeared near the end of last year in China.

They generally reside in bats and then in some domesticated animals before jumping to humans. One, known as Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome, or MERS, is believed to have jumped from camels to humans.

Tirupathi on Friday compared the new coronavirus to several well-known illnesses. He said it’s killing between 1.5 and 3.5 percent of the people who get it. The death rate was ten percent Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, and up to 33 percent for MERS.

So far, it looks like one person with the new coronavirus is spreading it to up to three people, he said. Each person with flu spreads it to about 1.5 others, and each person with measles spreads it to 11-18 others.

He said the quarantines and travel restrictions in China, and the screening underway at U.S. airports, may well keep the coronavirus from spreading here.

So far, about 12 cases have turned up in the United States, with all related to travel to China, including two people who got it from their spouse. There were no deaths in the United States as of Wednesday, Tirupathi said.

“I think we’re doing much better compared to previous epidemics,” he said.

If it would begin to spread in the United States, “we would definitely need to rev up testing, isolation and quarantine procedures,” he said.

Of the millions of people quarantined in China, he noted, “It’s never been done in the history of mankind, that this large of a population was quarantined.”

Only one death had happened outside China as of Friday morning.

Tirupathi said the new coronavirus seems to be spreading by way of droplets from coughs and sneezes, and possibly by way of fecal matter.

He said the best way to prevent the spread is through covering the mouth and nose during coughs and sneezes, frequent hand washing and staying away from others if you are sick. He said the best protection against it is frequent hand washing and staying away from people who have it.

He said the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention expects a vaccine against coronavirus will become available within about three months.

Tirupathi expressed disappointment over reports that some Chinese in the United States, including school children, are being looked at as threats to spread coronavirus.

He said people need to understand no one can spread it unless they’ve been to China within the past 14 days.

“Disease knows no race or color,” he said.