Meanwhile, a Taiwanese cultural advocate says government information should be in Chinese languages

The second case of novel coronavirus is confirmed in Ontario, health officials reassure the situation is under control

TORONTO (NEWS 1130) — The second positive test result of the new coronavirus has been confirmed in Ontario as health officials reassure the public the situation is under control.

The second patient with a positive test result is the wife of the first patient, who is a man in his 50s. Officials say the latest case popped up exactly where they expected.

Ontario’s Associate Chief Medical Officer of Health Barbara Yaffe says this isn’t a surprise since the virus transmits through close human-to-human contact.

“In terms of transmission, it’s mostly to very close household contacts,” she explains. “I can assure you that any close household contacts have already been put into self-isolation.”

As officials wait for the test results of another 19 possible patients, Yaffe says they have implemented another precaution.

“As of this morning, Ontario implemented enhanced screening measures at all emergency medical services’ communication centres to help identify potential cases of this Wuhan novel coronavirus before dispatching paramedics,” she says.

The couple travelled from Wuhan via Guangzhou together, arriving in Toronto on Jan. 23. Despite additional screening questions in place at Pearson International Airport, and one patient showing a fever on his flight, the airport didn’t catch the case. On Saturday, officials made a point to say the patient’s wife was asymptomatic but was in self-isolation.

Federal health officials are an early stage of contacting others on that flight to see if they are showing any signs of the virus.

However, Ontario’s Health Minister Christine Elliott insists the health system is working.

“Rest assured, that the province’s integrated health care system today is far more prepared to respond to any potential health risks than in the past,” she says.

Meanwhile, with dozens of deaths in China and the virus showing no signs of slowing down, a local Taiwanese cultural advocate says government information should be in Chinese languages.

“We rely on community members to translate and rely on service agencies to translate as well is too slow in certain cases when it’s a time of emergency,” says Kevin Huang from the Hua Foundation.

He adds hateful comments online aren’t helping.

“I think that type, again, that causes a lot of people confusion, and confusion will lead to fear,” Huang says and points out this virus is most heavily impacting Chinese people right now.

There are thousands of new cases of the virus and 106 confirmed dead in China.

Foreign Affairs Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne says eight Canadians in Wuhan have asked his government for help. He says he knows of 167 citizens in that region.

China has sharply restricted travel in and out of the province of about 60 million people in an effort to keep the illness from spreading.

#China: We have increased our risk level for the province of #Hubei. Avoid all travel to the province due to strict travel restrictions imposed to limit the spread of the novel #coronavirus. https://t.co/WSPt3wcQ76 pic.twitter.com/1zgfLpQurb — Travel.gc.ca (@TravelGoC) January 27, 2020



The Government of Canada increased the travel risk to avoid all travel to Hubei, including Wuhan, Huanggang, and Ezhou. It says this is due to the travel restriction in place to avoid spreading the novel coronavirus.

With files from Cormac Mac Sweeney