Photo by CDC on Unsplash

When our health minister in Malaysia, Dzulkefly Ahmad, said that we don’t need to ban flights from China as a measure to prevent the spread of COVID-19, I froze. Instead of anger, I have more worries.

Why checking body temperature won’t help to cease the spread of the virus?

People who carry COVID-19, unlike SARS, can spread the virus even before symptoms, including fever occur. COVID-19 carriers can have a fever later after they pass the body temperature check. The incubation period, which is the time before symptoms develop, ranged from 0 to 24 days (ref 1). As our current concern about travel history is 14 days, this study raises concerns about the effectiveness of the existing measures.

Not to mention, some independent reports showed that COVID-19 carriers don’t even have a fever. Two separate studies showed 12.1% (ref 1), and 1.4% (ref 2) patients don’t exhibit fever symptoms.

These characteristics mentioned above of COVID-19 make the prevention of COVID-19 very challenging.

Checking body temperature has a limited effect on identifying COVID-19 carrier and is NOT going to block them.

You only need one miss to cause a massive public infection.

What if we can’t quarantine the COVID-19?

Frozen economic

As seen in China, factories can’t be operated due to the virus spreading concern. No production means no income.

People will disappear from the streets. No purchase equals to money flow on the market.

If this happens, what will happen in Malaysia?

2. Broken healthcare system

The patients will be first administrated to the hospital for treatment. However, the capacity of the hospital to receive patients are limited. If the capacity is saturated, that means we all have to take care of ourselves without any treatment. This includes patients of COVID-19 and other patients who required to stay in the hospital.

China has capabilities to build a hospital in ten days with 1000 beds. Do we have these capabilities? Do we have medical staff to accommodate these capacities of patients?

Not to mention, we are still haven’t figured out the behavior of COVID-19, as in several cases reported COVID-19-infected healthcare workers, in Japan and China.

If the healthcare system fails, what leaves us to treat the patients?

It takes 4–7 years for us to have trained medical staff, including doctors and nurses. Losing medical personnel not only means that we lose their life but also all the resources that we put in for their training. Imagine that, if we can survive this pandemic, we will have very few medical staff left. Would you like to see a doctor if he/she only trained for a shortened period?

The point is, we have to protect our healthcare system to prevent the spread of the virus because they are our ONLY chance to win this battle.

Okay, how?

What’s the best way to prevent COVID-19 from spreading?

The most effective way is to ban the flight from China.

Research points out that the COVID-19 is still active on an inanimate surface like metal, glass, or plastic for up to 9 days (ref 3), which the virus can infect other people in these eight days. This is like a ticking bomb.

You only need one miss to cause a massive public infection.

Check the Princess Diamond Cruise, which docked at Japan as an example. There are now 286 cases out of more than 3000 people on the cruise (data on Feb 15, 2020). Japan, who haven’t ban the flights from China, is in the rise of cases. A taxi driver, who tested for positive COVID-19, claimed that he hadn’t contacted any foreign visitors in two weeks before he had a fever. This is a sign of losing control of the spread of COVID-19, as you can’t even track where it comes from.

Dear Dzulkefly Ahmad, do you want this to happen in Malaysia?

If we ban the flight from China, we can block all the potential sources of the virus.

The best way to help China is to help ourselves

If we can prevent the spread of COVID-19 in Malaysia, we can then send the medical stuff (mask, goggles, etc.) or food supply to China.

If we can’t take care of ourselves, how can we help others?

We understand that there may have some political concerns. Banning the flights doesn’t mean that we don’t help China. We can help China in ways that don’t jeopardize Malaysia.

I’m worried about COVID-19 days and nights since my family is in Malaysia. I believe I’m not the only one.

Dear Dzulkefly Ahmad, please help my family and all Malaysian by banning the flights from China.

This COVID-19 is a battle we Malaysians can’t lose.

References: