Cities across China call off group banquets amid coronavirus outbreak

Global Times

Source:Global Times Published: 2020/2/5 22:08:45

Beijing has banned group banquets, the latest city to release such a notice, following a case involving residents in dozens of blocks from a community in Wuhan who reportedly have symptoms of the coronavirus infection.

No restaurants, organizations or individuals are allowed to hold banquets amid the coronavirus outbreak. Reserved events shall be called off or postponed, an official from the Beijing Municipal Market Supervision Bureau said during a press conference on Tuesday.

The announcement was written in a notice jointly released by the Beijing Municipal Market Supervision Bureau, Beijing Municipal Health Commission and Beijing Municipal Commerce Bureau.

Group events in villages such as birthday parties, festival parties and parties for celebrating college enrollment are forbidden, the notice reads.

Meanwhile, a number of residents in dozens of blocks in Baibuting Community in Wuhan, the epidemic center, have fever, a symptom of the coronavirus infection. The residents were receiving tests for the virus on Wednesday.

A festival feast that gathered over 40,000 residents was held in January in the community, local newspaper Chutian Metropolitan Daily reported.

Aside from Beijing, various provinces in China have called off group banquets and other forms of public gatherings, including Sichuan Province, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Zhejiang and Hebei provinces.

The Chengdu local government in Sichuan Province, has cancelled over 70,000 tables of group dining events in the city and over 30,000 tables for village feasts, local media reported on Tuesday.

A wedding that held 10 tables of guests, totaling 100 people, in Qinghai was cancelled in January as the Qinghai government required no group dining events in its cities, the local Xining Evening Post reported on Monday.

No specific number of coronavirus cases in Baibuting Community have been confirmed as of press time. But according to CCTV reports, patients who have a fever are in 33 out of 55 blocks in Anjuyuan neighborhood of the community, and in Baiheyuan neighborhood the number is 17 out of 36.

The Baibuting Community has nine neighborhoods in total, CCTV said.