A new emergency hospital for the treatment of coronavirus has been completed in just 10 days in Wuhan, China.

A new medical facility in the city of Wuhan has opened its doors to patients after just 10 days of construction, marking the latest effort by Chinese officials to stymie the rapidly spreading coronavirus that has sickened more than 20,000 people in the country.

On Tuesday China's National Health Commission was reporting 425 deaths from the virus in China, up 64 from a day earlier. All the deaths reported in the past day were in Hubei province, of which Wuhan is the capital. One person has died from the illness outside of China - in the Philippines.

There were 20,438 confirmed cases in China, an increase of 3235. According to Johns Hopkins University, there were 188 cases outside of mainland China, including those in Taiwan and Hong Kong.

Despite the infection numbers, the virus was not classified as a pandemic, as the vast majority of cases were in China. Only one death from the disease had been reported outside of China.

READ MORE:

* Australia to send coronavirus evacuees to New Zealand

* Coronavirus: Kiwi evacuees from Wuhan expected in New Zealand late on Wednesday

* Police investigating 'ignorant, arrogant' coronavirus email

* Coronavirus: What you need to know

* NZer in Wuhan awaits evacuation: 'I just don't want to spread the virus'

* MFAT advises against 'non-essential travel' to China as coronavirus outbreak worsens

* Auckland mum 'really worried' for daughter stuck in virus-hit Wuhan​

Dubbed the "super-fast hospital" by the state-owned China Daily newspaper, construction of the 1000-bed Huoshenshan hospital began formally on January 25. Officials hope the facility will relieve pressure on Wuhan's already overcrowded medical institutions, where some seeking care have been turned away because of a shortage of beds and basic supplies.

Meanwhile, Australian and New Zealand nationals in the coronavirus-hit city would be evacuated on an Air New Zealand flight.

Stringer/Getty Huoshenshan Hospital while it was under construction. It was a round-the-clock effort fuelled by 4000 workers and 1000 construction machines, according to China Daily.

The opening of the new hospital comes as the World Health Organisation has cautioned against panic about the outbreak and praised China's efforts to contain it, even as fears of transmission have continued to grow.

The facility's first patients arrived on Monday (local time), according to Chinese state media.

​Huoshenshan's swift construction was the product of a round-the-clock effort fuelled by 4000 workers and 1000 construction machines, the China Daily reported.

Live-streamed video over the course of construction allowed people to follow its progress online.

Xinhuanet, another state-run news agency, reported that the hospital is staffed by 1400 medical personnel from the People's Liberation Army.

The publication noted its rapid construction was modelled after a similar hospital built in Beijing during the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars), which involved 7500 construction workers. That facility, Xiaotangshan, was built in seven days.

Details about the patients who arrived at Huoshenshan on Monday were not immediately available.

Getty Images Workers building Wuhan Huoshenshan Hospital. A second rapid-build hospital is already under construction.

According to the Associated Press, the two-storey, 55,700 square metre Huoshenshan building features doubled-sided cabinets and ventilation systems that essentially quarantine patients, allowing hospital staff to deliver supplies without entering their rooms.

The building also contains infrared scanners that can detect if any employees have a fever - one of the coronavirus' telltale symptoms.

The new facility is opening as many residents of Wuhan have opted to stay home even if they are sick, citing limited beds and fears they may fall sick at hospitals.

But even in the early days of Huoshenshan's construction, it quickly became apparent that the facility would not be large enough to mitigate bed shortages as the virus continues to spread.

Another hospital under construction in Hubei province, called Leishenshan ("thunder-god mountain"), is scheduled to be completed February 5 and will contain an additional 1600 beds.

Similar facilities are also being built in Beijing and other Chinese cities.

SUPPLIED Wuhan. The new facility is opening as many residents have opted to stay home even if they are sick, citing limited beds and fears they may fall sick at hospitals.

NOT A PANDEMIC

The World Health Organisation designates a pandemic when there are outbreaks on at least two continents. So far, the WHO has called coronavirus a "public health emergency of international concern."

It has not affected enough people around the globe to be considered a pandemic. So far, other countries have reported only a few dozen cases, most involving travellers returning from China and their close contacts.

Based on the way the virus spread in China, investigators believe each infection has led to an average of 2.2 others getting sick. That's a bit more than ordinary flu but less than SARS, a genetic cousin of the new virus.

Governments are preparing for a possible pandemic and taking actions to prevent one.

The 2009 H1N1 influenza virus reached pandemic level. Now, H1N1 is a regular flu virus that circulates around the globe seasonally.

'IT'S LIKE BEING IN SCI-FI MOVIE'

Meanwhile, New Zealanders living throughout mainland China are describing a society that is closing down to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.

Iain Bremner, from Nelson, is teaching English at a university in Xi'an, a city of about nine million people about 800km north west on Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak. The wider province, of which Xi'an is the capital, has reported 128 cases of the virus.

Bremner told Stuff on Tuesday that city was in complete lockdown, with no students attending the university and only the supermarket left open.

"It's a city of nine million people but the streets are empty. It's like a ghost town. It's like being in a sci-fic movie."

Whenever he entered the supermarket or left the campus, Bremner said his temperature is checked by government officials.

"It's pretty damn scary. We are just hoping there is no major outbreak here."

If there is a major outbreak there is little Bremner can do but wait it out in his apartment on campus. He says no one is allowed to enter or leave the city, with two of his colleagues stuck in the villages they live behind containment lines.

"You can't get out of the city and you can't get out villages."

Even if he could leave it unclear how he would get to flight back to New Zealand.

Google maps The Defence Force Whangaparaoa Training Facility where Kiwis returning from Wuhan will be quarantined.

Meanwhile, more than 800km to the south, Jeremy List said concern was rising in the village where he, his wife and baby daughter were staying with family, after someone in a nearby town came down with a fever.

The Wellington man, who first spoke to Stuff last week, said petrol sales had been banned and travel restrictions have been tightened further in the village.

Far to the West, New Zealander Chris Slimmer said scenes with similar in Chengdu, a city of 14 million people where more than 250 confirmed cases have been reported thus far.

"The streets are empty, shops closed, vegetables are often sold out."

Slimmer said he was more worried about panic than catching the virus itself.

"I saw a lady yelling abuse at the chemist lady... because the chemist had no more masks. I've seen quite a few videos on wechat of similar events, which I think adds to people's anxiety. I'm hoping the anxiety dies down a bit and people slowly go back to leading their normal lives."

NZ, AUSTRALIAN EVACUATION

An Air New Zealand charter flight left Auckland for China just after midnight on Tuesday to evacuate New Zealanders and Australians currently stuck in Wuhan.

Passengers would be put in quarantine at a military base in Auckland's Whangaparaoa Peninsula when they arrived in New Zealand on Wednesday.

Meanwhile, the New Zealand International Students' Association has criticised the New Zealand Government's travel ban during the outbreak, saying students unable to travel back to the country from China were still obliged to pay for services they could not access.

The association listed costs such as application fees for visas, leases for accommodation, and uncertainty over whether students would have to pay an application fee for another visa due to deferred study courses.

- Washington Post with AP