It's a Wednesday night and I'm sitting at Beijing airport with my cameraman Brant Cumming. Masks on. Uneasiness pulsing through me.

We're on the way to Wuhan — epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak.

It's a city that almost everyone is trying to avoid but at the departure gate, there are dozens who are bucking the trend.

These are Wuhanren — people from the city who work or study in Beijing and are making the traditional pilgrimage home.

They're all wearing masks, some are wearing respirators, and there's a stony silence as we all watch passengers from the arriving flight from Wuhan disembark.

One woman being helped by her daughter looks frail, distressed and very sick.

But her daughter is calm, which suggests she doesn't have the virus that's causing high anxiety around the world.

Let's hope so because we're getting on that plane.

Two staff in protective gear disinfect the aircraft.

As we're sitting on the tarmac, I'm thinking of all the people who told me not to go.

While some international journalists have gone to Wuhan, many said they didn't want to.

Others weren't allowed — their companies believed it was too much of a risk.

One British video journalist I know was told he couldn't stay overnight and could only spend a maximum of ten hours on the ground.

Share China correspondent Bill Birtles on the way to Wuhan to cover the coronavirus outbreak.

As always on assignments like this, we'd done a risk assessment in consultation with the International Desk in Sydney and decided it was ok for us to go.

But the opinions of some of my Chinese colleagues and friends freaked me out a bit.

"The virus is much worse than the authorities say," they told me.

Some with hospital contacts in central China told me, "the virus is everywhere now, the official numbers are way behind".

One Chinese colleague told me a Beijing TV crew that went there returned to the capital only to end up in hospital.

It's those unknowns that churn around in my head as the plane takes off.

Nearly everyone wears a mask. A Spanish journalist a few rows ahead of me already has the medical gloves on.

Share Funeral parlour staff members in protective suits help a colleague with disinfection after they transferred a body at a hospital in Wuhan.

As I look out the window at the city of 10 million below me, I ponder how long we're going to stay here.

By the time we get to the baggage carousel, it's almost midnight.

So, I whip out the recorder to start doing interviews.

I'd like to have something to file for the morning, so I ask several people from the flight if they are worried.

Not really, they all said, and nor had their friends and family in Wuhan been affected.

That's reassuring, I thought.

When we emerge into the arrivals hall, we're met by our driver, Mr Pang.

He's one of the few people not wearing a face mask.

External Link: Bill Birtles tweet on coronavirus

That's not so reassuring.

Bear in mind I've got it in my head from Chinese friends that the virus is everywhere by now in Wuhan.

Mr Pang tells me he's not scared, although I do ask him to put a mask on for the trip.

Then I interview him for my morning AM package.

I ask Mr Pang does he know anyone who has the virus.

"Oh yes," he tells me, "a friend of mine is in the hospital with it."

"How's he doing?" I ask.

"Oh, not too bad, I spoke to him the other day on the phone — says he feels better but they haven't released him yet."

I ask does he know how he got it.

"He thinks he might have got it while playing mahjong, reckons the air in the room was stuffy, a lot of people in there."

Then I asked had his friend ever been to that seafood and animal market that had been identified as the initial source of the new virus.

"Oh yeah, he works there, he runs a business there," Mr Pang told me.

We drive past one of the major hospitals and I think about the people inside who must be suffering from the virus and the nurses and doctors — clad in hazmat protective gear, how anxious they must be.

By this stage, one doctor has died.

Share Cameraman Brant Cumming being tested for a high temperature on check-in at a Wuhan hotel.

We get to our hotel — a massive empty lobby — and do the mandatory temperature checks before entering.

At 1:00am, I'm on my laptop transferring my interviews with Mr Pang and others, hoping to smash out a three-minute piece for AM and still sneak in a few hours' sleep.

I'm monitoring updates online as I translate the interview and write the story.

And just as I'm finishing the edit, at about 2:30am, and sending the story to Sydney, my Twitter feed lights up.

The Wuhan government has announced that it will lock down the city at 10:00am the next day.

Share Boarding a flight out of Wuhan before the city was locked down.

All flights, all trains out of Wuhan will be suspended.

Ok, so what do we do?

In our pre-departure safety chat with ABC headquarters, we discussed this scenario.

If they locked down the city, we'd be stuck and would just keep filing until we could get a way out.

But this was different and not what we'd expected.

We had time to get out before they locked it down.

It seems to me that the authorities deliberately announced it at 2:30am so most Wuhan residents would miss it and there wouldn't be a mad scramble to get out.

Had I not been filing for AM, I would have missed it too.

So, now I'm pondering our options.

They're definitely going to lock Wuhan down for a while, we could be stuck here for weeks.

And if it's as bad as everyone fears, that's plenty of time for us to be exposed to the virus while we're here.

So, I made the call. We had better get out. Too many unknowns.

So, I scrambled to book a flight out before 10:00am and amazingly I was able to get tickets to Shanghai.

I spoke to the desk in Sydney, who thought erring on the side of caution seemed sensible.

And then I woke up Brant.

Now, Brant came to China after a stint in the Middle East so his instinct was a little different.

Why are we leaving the biggest story in the world, he asked?

He's used to going in to places that others are fleeing and that's where the stories are.

I hesitated once more.

I checked with a mate from CNN who'd also come down — he was being pulled out.

As was a friend from Sky News TV.

Um, ah, um, ah, um… Oh heck, we better go.

So, I woke up our driver and we made the long trip to Wuhan airport at 4:30 in the morning.

Luckily, we were early and actually had time to interview people at the airport.

They were all wearing masks but told me they weren't that worried.

Their faces said otherwise, especially the parents with kids.

In China, there is a stock standard patriotic answer that many, usually young people, tell me when the cameras are rolling.

I suspect it's a bit different if you have more time to talk to people.

"I'm sure our country is strong and can handle it," is what you'll hear.

But people remember SARS in 2003, and the disastrous way in which local and then higher-level officials hid the extent of the outbreak. Hundreds died.

Share Flight attendants wearing masks on a flight out of Wuhan.

As we departed for Shanghai, everyone on board had a mask, including the flight attendants.

On board, no-one talked.

It was eerie.

The day before Lunar New Year is supposed to be festive — a time for families to reunite or travel together.

We landed and, along with everyone else, were scanned by teams in white biohazard gear.

I needed to find a coffee shop with wi-fi to file my stories.

But the shops didn't have power points for my dying laptop so Brant and I sat on the ground in the terminal, plugged in to a wall socket and spent the afternoon writing, recording, going outside to do TV reports and eventually retreating to an airport hotel.

Share ABC China correspondent Bill Birtles and cameraman Brant Cumming file from Shanghai airport after they managed to get out of Wuhan.

We're now back in Beijing, still with an incubation period, but we're feeling fine.

A few days ago, I messaged Mr Pang to ask how his mate in hospital was going.

I wanted to know if he was up to an interview down the phone, to tell us what it's like to have coronavirus and to be treated in a Wuhan hospital.

Mr Pang got to back to me and said, "he's happy to talk, but he's a businessman, so he wants 500 Yuan".

That's about 100 bucks.

We didn't pay, but it sounds like Mr Pang's friend is recovering well.

Finally, a bit of good news.

Listen to Bill Birtles' report and stories from other ABC journalists posted overseas on Correspondents Report on RN's Sunday Extra