New Delhi:

Even as the world watches in despair the effects of Wuhan virus, two new suspected cases were reported from Jaipur and Patna on Monday. In Rajasthan’s capital city, a doctor, who returned to India after completing the MBBS course in China, was kept in isolation at the SMS Hospital on the suspicion of being affected by coronavirus. In an official statement, the minister said a blood sample of the patient was sent to the National Virology Laboratory in Pune. In Patna, a PhD scholar was kept in the isolated ward at Patna Medical College and Hospital over coronavirus scare.

The 29-year-old Neuroscience scholar had returned to her Chhapra home on January 22. When media tried talking to her, the woman hit back and said, ‘I’m not infected.’ PMCH superintendent told News Nation that the woman’s blood sample will be sent to Pune lab for the confirmation. Earlier, two suspected cases were reported from Mumbai that turned out to be negative. Indian authorities have increased the screening procedures at major international airports. Special focus is being paid to those returning from China.

More suspects

Apart from Jaipur and Patna, one person each from Thrissur, Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta and Malappuram and three from Ernakulam are in isolation wards of various health centres in Kerala.

MEA keeping close tab

Meanwhile, the External Affairs Ministry said that as of now no Indian in China has been affected by the coronavirus outbreak and the embassy in Beijing is in close touch with all Indians, including university students, in Wuhan and elsewhere in Hubei province. The death toll in the deadly new coronavirus in China rose to 56 on Sunday with confirmed cases of viral affliction reaching 2,008, including 23 from abroad.

External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is closely monitoring the situation, MEA spokesperson Raveesh Kumar said. "We are also closely coordinating with Chinese authorities. As of now, we understand that no Indian citizens have been affected by the outbreak and that food and water supplies are available to them," Kumar tweeted.

Ground reality in Wuhan

On Monday, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang visited the coronavirus hit Wuhan city, the first such trip by a top leader as the death toll climbed to 80 with 2,744 confirmed cases. Li arrived in Wuhan to inspect the epidemic control and prevention work, state-run China Daily reported. He heads the high-powered group of the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) officials empowered to deal with the rapidly spreading virus on war footing.

For all the Latest India News, Download News Nation Android and iOS Mobile Apps.