Around 650 people were brought back in two phases from Wuhan, China | Photo Credit: ANI

New Delhi: All 645 evacuees stranded in China's Wuhan, the epicentre of novel coronavirus epidemic, tested negative for coronavirus, the Health Ministry announced.

The global death toll in coronavirus outbreak in China has reportedly reached 562 with 70 more deaths reported from Hubei province. The number of people who were affected in China in the deadly outbreak remains at a whopping 27,378.

While most casualties remain concentrated in China, one person died neighbouring Hong Kong and the Philippines respectively.

The first case of the deadly infection was diagnosed in December in Wuhan and subsequently spread to other parts of the world.

Three cases of the virus have been confirmed in Kerala as well where over 2,000 people are under observation.

Coronavirus updates: As it happened

7:00 pm: All 645 evacuees from Wuhan test negative for coronavirus

Health Ministry: All 645 evacuees from Wuhan, China have tested negative for coronavirus and no new case has been reported.

5:00 pm: Special prayer offered at Chilkur Balaji temple to check spread of coronavirus

Over 2,000 devotees offered special prayer at Chilkur Balaji temple in Hyderabad to contain the impact of deadly coronavirus all over the world, especially in India. People participated in the special prayers at Chilkur Balaji temple, popularly known as 'Visa God'.

4.30 pm: India responds to Pakistani students' SOS call

Responding to Pakistani’s students’ SOS call to India, Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson said the government will consider the request if such a situation arises and there are appropriate resources.

“We have not received any request regarding it from the Pakistan Government. But, if such a situation arises and we have resources then we will consider it,” Kumar said during a press briefing.

He clarified that the e-visa facility is available only for certain of visits to India and diplomats do not fall in that category. A diplomat visa is applied at the Embassy. So, it may not impact the diplomatic process, he added.

#WATCH Raveesh Kumar, MEA (Ministry of External Affairs) on video of Pakistani students in China asking for help from India: We have not received any request regarding it from Pakistan Government. But, if such a situation arises and we have resources then we will consider it. pic.twitter.com/3iSufILHqi — ANI (@ANI) February 6, 2020

3.39 pm: Outbreak hits trade: India's chilli exports feel the heat

India's chilli exports to China have been hit due to the suspension of trade following the spread of novel coronavirus. The Centre should take steps to protect the interests of affected farmers, Congress leader K VP Ramachandra Rao says in Rajya Sabha.

3.32 pm: China builds makeshift hospital within two weeks

China has close to completing the construction of its Leishenshan Hospital in Wuhan city - the epicentre of coronavirus outbreak in Hubei province in a mere two weeks time. Leishenshan Hospital is a makeshift healthcare facility which will solely focus on patients of the deadly virus.

China built Leishenshan Hospital, one of the makeshift hospitals in Wuhan to combat #coronavirus, in less than two weeks. The hospital is expected to be delivered and put into use soon. Check out more details #pneumonia pic.twitter.com/GUPB7cEpRv — China Xinhua News (@XHNews) February 6, 2020

2.41 pm: Photos of healthcare workers go viral after prolonged wearing of masks

Healthcare workers in China's Wuhan city are working overtime to fight the outbreak of coronavirus which has claimed over 500 lives. Viral Images on the internet show marks on faces of healthcare professionals after they took off their masks. Some of them had the mask on for more than 12 hours while working in hospitals. Netizens hailed them as heroes.

#coronavirus. Photos of frontline medics after they took off their masks; some wore masks for 12 hours at a stretch. 12 HOURS. Netizens hailing them as heroes as the Chinese govt glosses over lapses in alerting its own citizens over a spreading, deadly virus. @htTweets pic.twitter.com/1eKdd1s9Mf — SutirthoPatranobis 李学华 (@spatranobis) February 6, 2020

1.51 pm: RBI Guv pitches for a contingency plan for economy

Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das said the country should prepare a contingency plan to deal with the impact of the virus on the economy. Economic experts have warned that the deadly virus will have an adverse impact on the Chinese economy. China has locked down Wuhan, the epicentre of the deadly virus, where authorities have doubled down on efforts to treat patients. More than 500 people have been reported dead and over 24,000 confirmed cases of the deadly virus have been reported in China.

Raising concerns over the spread of deadly #coronavirus, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das suggests that a contingency plan should be prepared to deal with the impact of the virus on the economy. — Press Trust of India (@PTI_News) February 6, 2020

1.15 pm: Hospital set up in 10 days in China

Known for its breakneck speed for building installations in record time, China has doubled up efforts to set up the infrastructure to fight the current outbreak of the deadly coronavirus in the country. China’s Xinhua news agency recently published a video depicting how a SARS treatment-model hospital was constructed in just 10 days in the country’s Zhengzhou city in Henan province.

LIVE: A #SARS treatment-model hospital in Zhengzhou has been delivered, after 10 days of construction. #coronavirus https://t.co/WXVbOThPyA — China Xinhua News (@XHNews) February 6, 2020

12.41 pm: Actual coronavirus toll over 24,000? Top Chinese company lists scary stats, claims report

As experts questioned the official figures on Wuhan coronavirus published by China, a top Shenzhen-based conglomerate briefly updated its "Epidemic Situation Tracker" pegging the death toll at over 24,000 and confirmed cases of novel coronavirus (2019nCoV) at 154,023.

The stunning claim was made in a report by Taiwan News under the headline “Tencent may have accidentally leaked real data on Wuhan virus deaths”.

12.18 pm: Three people hospitalised in Uttar Pradesh

Three persons have been admitted to government hospitals in Balrampur, Agra and Gonda districts of Uttar Pradesh on suspicion of contracting coronavirus. All three have recently returned from China and reported flu-like symptoms.

Director, communicable diseases, UP, Dr Mithlesh Chaturvedi said in an official statement that, "The three patients have been kept under observation while their families have been checked to rule out flu. Their samples have been taken and sent to NIV Pune to check for coronavirus."

The state health department also found eight asymptomatic probable cases including three from Meerut, two each from Bareilly and Gautam Buddha Nagar and one each from Balrampur, Pilibhit, Agra and Lucknow, who travelled to China recently and sent their samples for analysis.



11.49 am: First person tested positive for coronavirus in Thailand, cured completely

A person who tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Thailand has been completely cured and discharged from the hospital.

A 50-year-old taxi driver who ferried Chinese tourists recently is one of the nine cases of the outbreak that have been cured, said Thailand's health ministry.

11.16 am: All visas issued to Chinese passport holders before Feb 5 cancelled

All visas issued to Chinese passport holders coming from anywhere in the world, including regular (sticker) and e-visa issued before February 5, 2020, have been suspended with immediate effect. However, these restrictions will not be applicable to Chinese passport holders from Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. Also, foreigners who have been to China on or after 15th January 2020 are not allowed to enter India from any air, land or seaport, including Indo-Nepal, Indo-Bhutan, Indo-Bangladesh or Indo-Myanmar land borders.

The Ministry of External Affairs clarified that "existing visas are no longer valid. Intending visitors may contact Embassy in Beijing (visa.beijing@mea.gov.in) or the Consulates in Shanghai (Ccons.shanghai@mea.gov.in) and Guangzhou (Visa.guangzhou@mea.gov.in) to apply afresh for an Indian visa".

Embassy and our Consulates have been receiving several queries from Chinese citizens as well as other foreign nationals, who are based out of China or visited China in the last 2 weeks, as to whether they can use their valid single/multiple entry visas to travel to India. (1/4) — India in China (@EOIBeijing) February 4, 2020

11.02 am: Over 28,200 confirmed cases of coronavirus in 27 countries

Confirmed cases of the coronavirus have been reported from 27 countries with a most affected in China at 28,017. Japan remains second most affected with 45 confirmed cases of the virus.

Confirmed Cases by Country/ Region

28,017 Mainland China

45 Japan

28 Singapore

25 Thailand

23 South Korea

21 Hong Kong

14 Australia

12 Germany

12 US

12 Malaysia

11 Taiwan

10 Vietnam

10 Macau

6 France

5 Canada

5 United Arab Emirates

3 India

2 Italy

2 Russia

2 Philippines

2 UK

1 Nepal

1 Cambodia

1 Belgium

1 Spain

1 Finland

1 Sweden

1 Sri Lanka

(Date source: John Hopkins University)

10.47 am: Panic buying in Hong Kong where coronavirus claimed one victim

Supermarkets in Hong Kong saw long queues as panic buying in due to coronavirus outbreak. Face masks and other supplies are in heavy demand as people scramble to stock up in the face of virus outbreak scare. One person has been reported dead in Hong Kong.

Panic buying and long, long worry lines.



Hong Kong supermarket shelves empty of toilet paper and residents queue up in the thousands in the hope of buying face masks, only to be turned away when stocks run out #coronavirus



Anthony Wallace and Philip Fong pic.twitter.com/sFuI623lF6 — AFP news agency (@AFP) February 6, 2020

10.43 am: Foreigners who visited China after January 15 not allowed to enter India

Immigration officials told ANI that foreigners who have been to China on or after 15th January 2020 are not allowed to enter India from any air, land or seaport, including Indo-Nepal, Indo-Bhutan, Indo-Bangladesh or Indo-Myanmar land borders.

10.33 am: All visas to Chinese passport holders issued before February 5 stand cancelled

All visas to Chinese passport holders coming from anywhere in the world, including regular and e-visa which were issued before February 5, have been suspended with immediate effect. Restrictions, however, are not applicable to Chinese passport holders of Hong Kong, Macau & Taiwan.

10.19 am: Coronavirus impacts Auto Expo 2020

The impact of coronavirus reached unlikely quarters: the Auto Expo 2020 - where some members of visiting delegations from China stood cancelled.

HS Brar, Director Sales&Marketing, Great Wall Motors, told ANI, "A big delegation was supposed to come from China but we cancelled their trip. Interaction of Chinese colleagues with the public has been reduced".

Gr Noida: #Coronavirus impacts number of Chinese nationals visiting #AutoExpo. HS Brar, Director Sales&Marketing, Great Wall Motors, says, "A big delegation was supposed to come from China but we cancelled their trip.Interaction of Chinese colleagues with public has been reduced" pic.twitter.com/kqljZJJRLL — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) February 6, 2020

10.05 am: With the threat from coronavirus looming large, a Chinese woman got married to an Indian man in East Midnapore on Wednesday, in the absence of her family as they could not make it to the wedding due to suspension of flight services between two nations.

B Jiaqi from China got married to East Midnapore's Pintu at his residence on Wednesday. She had met Pintu Jana during a business deal in China seven years ago.