It was determined that the person, who was asked to self-monitor at home, did not meet the level of criteria to be tested for the virus.

A person who feared they had a Coronavirus infection sought treatment Wednesday from Sacred Heart Medical Center at RiverBend in Springfield.

But the patient was released after the hospital determined that the person did not meet the level of criteria to be tested, said Public Health spokesperson Jason Davis.

The patient was asked to self-monitor for fever, stay in contact with the public health department and avoid public areas, according to a statement from PeaceHealth.

Davis said the situation is not unlike thousands of incidents happening all over the U.S. out of extreme caution and due diligence.

Anyone who comes to a hospital saying they think they may have the Coronavirus is likely to be treated in a certain way, per hospital protocol, advised by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

In this case, hospital staff suited up and moved the person to an isolated room, where they were monitored and asked questions. The person, who had not been to China, did not meet the level of criteria to be escalated from being monitored to being under investigation, Davis said.

There is very little risk, if any, to the people of Eugene of developing the illness, and there has not been a confirmed case anywhere in Oregon, Davis said. Comparing that to cases of the flu and flu deaths, Davis said, people are focusing on the wrong illness.

"If you haven't been to Wuhan (China) or been in contact with someone from Wuhan, the vast chance is you don't have it," Davis said Thursday of the Coronavirus.

According to a PeaceHealth statement, because the patient met the criteria — thought they were sick with Coronavirus — for being at risk of having the virus, the hospital followed its "appropriate care protocols," including the patient was isolated through their hospital visit and did not travel through public areas of the facility. The emergency room staff was at no risk of infection during the patient's stay, the statement read.

The statement continued, "Well in advance of this suspected case, we established clinical and operational protocols, implemented (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)-recommended isolation processes and procedures, safeguarded proper screening tools and laboratory testing, and ensured adequate supplies and protective equipment in the event we received a patient with a suspected case of the virus."

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are common in many different species of animals, including camels, cattle, cats, and bats, according to the CDC. Rarely, animal coronaviruses can infect people and then spread between people such as with MERS, SARS, and now with the 2019 Novel Coronavirus.

The 2019 novel Coronavirus, thought to have originated in Wuhan area of China, has contributed to the deaths of more than 550 people in China. The virus has infected about 28,000 people in about two dozen countries. There are 11 confirmed cases in the U.S.

Symptoms include fever, cough and shortness of breath. Reported illnesses have ranged from people with little to no symptoms to people being severely ill and dying. The CDC states the illness may appear in as few as two days or as long as 14 days after exposure.

Editor's note: This story has been updated to reflect who determined the patient could be released and determined that the person did not meet the level of criteria to be tested.