Advertisement 2 people in NH being tested for coronavirus after visiting China Health officials say 2 developed symptoms after recent travel to Wuhan City Share Shares Copy Link Copy

Two people in New Hampshire recently traveled to the Chinese city at the center of the deadly coronavirus outbreak and are being monitored, health officials said. Officials with the state Department of Health and Human Services said the two developed respiratory symptoms and are undergoing testing for novel coronavirus, which has sickened thousands and killed at least 106 people in China.Health officials said the two people have mild symptoms but are remaining isolated until test results are available. Officials said samples have been sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for testing.One of those people is being treated at Littleton Regional Healthcare Center. That patient just returned from Wuhan, China, Jan. 6 and has symptoms of respiratory illness.Officials said if the tests come back positive, they will share that information with the public."The risk to our communities in New Hampshire is low, but we want to identify people who may be infected with this new coronavirus in order to prevent spread," said Dr. Benjamin Chan, the state epidemiologist. "We have recommended that health care providers conduct travel screenings and implement isolation practices for patients with a fever or respiratory illness who report travel to this affected region of China. This is a rapidly changing situation, and we remain committed to providing timely updates to residents of New Hampshire and our health care providers." Five coronavirus infections have been confirmed in four U.S. states, officials said. More than 100 other people in the U.S. are being tested. Reported symptoms of novel coronavirus include fever, cough and difficulty breathing. There are no vaccines available to protect against infection. Health officials said it's still unknown how easily the virus spreads, but it has been confirmed to spread person to person.The CDC recommends taking precautionary measures similar to those for flu prevention, including frequent handwashing with soap and water, avoiding sick people, staying home if you are sick, covering your nose and mouth when sneezing or coughing, and cleaning and disinfecting surfaces and objects that might be contaminated with germs.Those steps can help prevent infection from many different viruses circulating this time of year.