BEIJING, Feb 14, 2020 (BSS/AFP) – The death toll from China’s virus epidemic neared 1,400 on Friday with six medical workers among the victims, underscoring the country’s struggle to contain a deepening health crisis.

Nearly 64,000 people are now recorded as having fallen ill from the virus

in China, with officials revealing that 1,716 health workers had been

infected as of Tuesday.

The grim figure comes a week after an outpouring of grief and public anger

over the death of a whistleblowing doctor who had been reprimanded and

silenced by police after raising the alarm about the virus in December. The

scale of the epidemic swelled this week after authorities in central Hubei

province, the epicentre of the contagion, changed their criteria to count the

number of cases, adding thousands of new patients to their tally.

The health emergency in China has caused fears of more global contagion,

with more than two-dozen countries reporting hundreds of cases among them.

Three people have died outside mainland China.

The United States accused China of lacking transparency.

The majority of cases of infections among health workers was in Hubei’s

capital, Wuhan, where many have lacked proper masks and gear to protect

themselves in hospitals dealing with a deluge of patients.

Some 80,000 medical workers were involved in combatting the epidemic in

Wuhan, the city government said earlier this month.

After the death of whistleblower Li Wenliang, a 34-year-old

ophthalmologist in Wuhan, 10 academics circulated an open letter calling for

political reform and freedom of speech in the Communist-ruled country.

Under criticism over the handling of the crisis, China’s Communist Party

sacked two top-ranking officials in Hubei, and replaced them with senior

cadres with security backgrounds.

– New count –

Authorities in Hubei province on Thursday started counting patients who

were “clinically diagnosed” via lung imaging, in addition to those who

undergo lab tests.

The revision added nearly 15,000 patients to Hubei’s count in a single

day, with officials explaining that past cases were included. The first cases

emerged in December in Wuhan.

On Friday, Hubei’s health commission said another 116 people had died and

more than 4,800 new cases were reported. Of those cases, more than 3,000 were

“clinically diagnosed”.

The WHO said the numbers included cases going back weeks.

The sharp one-day increase “does not represent a significant change in the

trajectory of the outbreak,” said Michael Ryan, head of WHO’s health

emergencies programme.

The move will ensure patients get treated as early as possible, instead of

having to wait for laboratory tests, health officials said. “There have been

some backlogs in testing and this is also going to help in ensuring that

people get adequate care,” Ryan said.

The National Health Commission said the new criteria would only apply to

Hubei.

The commission reported five other deaths and 217 new cases elsewhere in

China, as the number of new patients outside Hubei fell for a 10th straight

day.

It also disclosed a statistical error, saying it removed 108 previous

deaths in Hubei that had been double-counted. The nationwide toll still rose

to 1,380.

Authorities have placed some 56 million people in Hubei under quarantine

since late last month, in an unprecedented effort to stop the new coronavirus

from spreading.

Some cities in Hubei tightened restrictions this week, sealing off

neighbourhoods in what they liken to “war-time” measures.

Authorities have scrambled to deploy protective equipment to Wuhan’s

hospitals, where doctors and nurses have been overwhelmed by an ever-growing

number of patients.

The government has also built two field hospitals within two weeks and

converted public buildings into makeshift clinics to relieve Wuhan’s

hospitals.

– US criticism –

While the WHO has praised China’s handling of the epidemic — in contrast

to its cover-up of the SARS outbreak in 2002-2003 — a top White House

official on Thursday said Beijing should be more open.

“We are a little disappointed that we haven’t been invited in and we’re a

little disappointed in the lack of transparency coming from the Chinese,”

Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, told reporters.

Kudlow said President Xi Jinping had assured President Donald Trump that

Beijing would accept US help, but “they won’t let us”.

Kudlow’s comments contrasted with Trump’s apparent confidence in China,

with the US leader telling a radio show that Xi is “extremely capable” and

that the US was “working with them” and “sending a lot of people”.

Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said Beijing has had an

“open and transparent attitude” with the global community since the start of

the epidemic.

“The Chinese side has always a positive, open attitude toward cooperation

with the US side,” Geng told reporters, adding that US and Chinese health

departments have maintained close communication and exchanged epidemic

information in a “timely manner”.

Several countries have banned arrivals from China, while major airlines

have halted flights to and from the country.

The US State Department said it was “deeply concerned” about the

vulnerability of China’s northern neighbour, North Korea, and offered to

support aid work in the country.