CLOSE Coronavirus has spread from Wuhan, China, to countries across the world. But how do you know you have it? Here are some signs to watch out for. USA TODAY

Two University of Delaware students are being screened for possible cases of the coronavirus, university officials said Tuesday.

Officials provided few details about the students, saying only that they do not live on campus and are "in isolation at an area hospital, safe and receiving care." It's not clear if the students recently traveled to China, the epicenter of the virus.

The risk to the university community is "low," officials said.

MORE: Delaware resident tests negative for coronavirus

Andrea Boyle Tippett, director of external relations, said the school's privacy rules blocked her from offering more details. UD's spring semester started Monday.

"We do not currently have any students studying abroad in China," she said.

"We do have 226 students who were unable to return to campus for the start of the semester from China due to travel restrictions."

While there are no confirmed cases of the coronavirus in Delaware, at least three people have been screened for the illness. In late January, state health officials were investigating a potential case in a Delaware resident, but the results were negative for the virus.

The state has been coordinating testing with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Results are expected in the coming days, UD officials said.

Coronaviruses are among a group of viruses that can cause sickness ranging from the common cold to pneumonia, and even Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS.

Signs of infection can include fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. Most cases are mild, but serious cases can lead to pneumonia, kidney failure and death.

(Photo: Getty Images)

The virus can be spread by coughing, sneezing and close contact with an infected person. It can also be spread from an animal to a person. There is no vaccine.

Health officials say people are at a greater risk of catching the flu than the coronavirus.

Only those who have recently traveled to China or have been in contact with someone who has recently traveled and is sick will have an increased risk for becoming ill, state officials say.

Read all our breaking news stories — and the stories that follow as we learn more — with a subscription to Delaware Online.

While there is no specific treatment for the infection, state officials said many people can recover with getting rest, drinking fluids and taking over-the-counter medication.

This is a developing story. Check delawareonline.com for additional updates.

Contact Meredith Newman at 302-324-2386 or mnewman@delawareonline.com and on Twitter @MereNewman.

Read or Share this story: https://www.delawareonline.com/story/news/health/2020/02/11/2-university-delaware-students-being-screened-coronavirus-officials-say/4727032002/