Delta plane dumps jet fuel over US schools in emergency landing causing minor injuries to 40

Updated

Fuel dumped by an airliner making an emergency return to Los Angeles International Airport due to an engine problem has fallen onto three schools, causing minor irritation to 40 children and adults.

Key points: Patients complained of mild skin irritation and were treated with soap and water

The Delta Air Lines Flight 89 was bound for Shanghai

The Federal Aviation Administration said it is thoroughly investigating the circumstances behind the incident

The incident occurred around noon (local time) in the Cudahy area of southeastern Los Angeles County, about 21km east of the airport.

Fuel dumping is a process used in certain emergency situations to reduce the weight of the airplane but according to aviation rules, nearby facilities need to be warned by air traffic controllers.

Los Angeles Unified School District police sergeant Rudy Perez said 28 students and adults were affected at Park Avenue Elementary and 12 others at 93rd Street Elementary, but none needed to be taken to hospitals.

Jordan High was also affected but no one was treated there, he said.

All of the injuries at Park Avenue Elementary School in suburban Cudahy were said to be minor and none of the victims needed hospitalisation, the Los Angeles County Fire Department said on Twitter.

Los Angeles County Fire Department Inspector Henry Narvaez said the fuel had dissipated by the time it reached the ground but the children and adults could smell it.

Mr Narvaez said the patients complained of mild skin irritation and were treated with soap and water.

There were no evacuation orders for the immediate area.

'I'm very upset'

The school district said in a statement that paramedics were immediately called to treat anyone complaining of "skin irritation or breathing problems" and that its environmental health and safety office also responded.

Park Avenue sixth-grader Diego Martinez said he and his classmates were outside for physical education class when they saw the airplane flying low overhead.

"It was very close," he said.

Shortly afterwards the air filled with the pungent odour of fuel.

"It was very strong, the odour," the 12-year-old said.

Diego wasn't doused but some of his friends complained that their skin was itching.

"I'm very upset. This is an elementary school, these are small children," Elizabeth Alcantar, the mayor of Cudahy, told the Los Angeles Times.

The Federal Aviation Administration said in a statement that Delta Air Lines Flight 89 headed to Shanghai, China, declared an emergency after leaving Los Angeles International Airport, returned and landed without incident.

The FAA said it was looking into the reports of schoolchildren being affected.

"The FAA is thoroughly investigating the circumstances behind this incident. There are special fuel-dumping procedures for aircraft operating into and out of any major US airport," the agency said.

Delta Air Lines said in a statement that Flight 89 "experienced an engine issue requiring the aircraft to return to LAX. The aircraft landed safely after an emergency fuel release to reduce landing weight."

The FlightAware website's track of the flight showed the jet took off over the ocean and made an immediate turn back towards land and circled back over Southern California to approach the airport from the east.

Reuters

Topics: air-and-space, disasters-and-accidents, emergency-incidents, community-and-society, united-states

First posted