The whole world is under fear because of the deadly Coronavirus in China. Nowadays, people seem to be afraid of touching any object that originates from China. If you are a tech enthusiast, blogger or Youtuber, they would have received plenty of shipments that originate from China.

The time has come for us to ask a question.

Can you buy products from e-commerce marketplaces like Aliexpress, Banggood, Gearbest because of the Coronavirus outbreak? Do the packages infect you with the Coronavirus? Can you open the package without fear?

These are the question that is being asked by people worldwide on social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook. Moreover, many online news portals have published content related to the consumption of products from Coronavirus hit China. We have an answer from you from a trusted source.

The latest development is that the World Health Organization took to Twitter with the piece of information that packages originating from China are safe. Moreover, people who receive packages from China are not at risk of contracting #2019nCoV. The WHO added that Coronaviruses do not survive long on objects, such as letters or packages from the previous analysis.

According to estimates, shipments from China to the entire world skyrocketed during the past several years. This is mainly due to the vast selection range coupled with unbeatable pricing. For instance, you can easily snatch away a micro-USB cable for below $1 from AliExpress.

You should note that the Coronavirus mainly hit Wuhan in China. The tech hub like Shenzen, Shanghai, Guangdong, and others are far away from Wuhan. Moreover, the Chinese Government has banned travel to and from Wuhan. Hence, there is no scope for the virus to transmit to other regions in China.

According to US health officials, the chances of Coronavirus spreading through imported goods are bleak since there is no credible evidence. The main reason is that the Coronaviruses can’t survive on surfaces. Dr. Nancy Messonnier, director of the Center for Disease Control’s Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases disclosed that there is very low risk of spread from products or packaging that are shipped over a period of days or weeks at ambient temperatures.

The time required to receive products from China to foreign countries like India, UK and US take around one month to 45 days via Aliexpress, Bangoood, and others. The Coronavirus can’t survive this much long since the packages are routed via several destinations. However, we don’t have any credible proof to support this move but experts are of the opinion that the virus doesn’t stay long. It will take time as to whether the virus will spread via packages.

We established contact with Dr. Elson Haas MD, who runs Preventive Medical Center of Marin in San Rafael, CA to know about the safety of ordering products from e-commerce websites. You can find his reply below.

I would not think so, yet I guess it’s conceivable there could be contamination. Just sounds very unlikely.

Dr Elson

We reached out to Banggood support and asked about our concerns regarding the Coronavirus threat.

Can I order from Banggood? Can I open the package without fear? I am asking because of the Coronavirus attack in China?

The main situation is in Wuhan city. The China government is taking effective and prompt actions. And it is under control now with very limited impact for other cities. Please do not worried. We are also doing our best to ensure no impact for our customers and their orders.

Does this virus spread through packages?

No, it does not, it was particularly in Wuhan city and our warehouse is located far away from this city. You need not to worry about it, it is under control and you may open and use the product with happy arms.

The e-commerce companies will never say that you should not buy products from them. Many of the company warehouses are situated far way from Wuhan, which is the epicenter of the Coronavirus. However, you should take adequate precautions and make sure to avoid shipments that originate from Wuhan. You need not have to worry because the Chinese Government has already imposed a ban on travel to and from Wuhan. Hence, it’s practically impossible for the virus to travel to other major Chinese cities.

If you had ordered items prior to the Coronavirus outbreak, then you can use the products without any fear. If you had placed an order, it will take several days for you to receive the product package depending upon the shipping mode. It will take several weeks for the customs to process and release your shipment.

It’s safe to order products from Banggood because their warehouse is located far away from Wuhan. You should be careful when it comes to Aliexpress because items are shipped by sellers and you don’t know their location. We don’t know about the location of other e-commerce marketplaces and you will have to contact the company directly.

The latest news is that e-commerce companies based in China are not shipping products and the factories are closed. The Health Department has issued strict guidelines not to open any offices until next week. Hence, your order will be delayed and might take over 3 months to arrive. hence, we would suggest you to wait and then order products after the situation stabilizes.