February 7th, 2020.

Good evening.

The Chinese doctor who faced government persecution after being one of the first people to warn about the appearance of a new coronavirus strain in the city of Wuhan has died after being infected; the country’s authorities are facing a popular backlash about their handling of the case and of the epidemic in general. The government of the Brazilian state of Rondônia tried to seize several books written by world-renowned authors from its public schools, but eventually backed down. President Jair Bolsonaro authorized the deployment of Brazilian Armed Forces to protect a federal maximum-security penitentiary in Brasília where PCC leader Marcola is serving prison time. The city of São Paulo began to receive part of the money seized from bank accounts on the island of Jersey identified as belonging to ex-city mayor Paulo Maluf, accused of embezzling over R$ 300 million and currently under house arrest for money laundering. Finally, the United States government confirmed its security forces have killed the leader of Islamist terrorist group al-Qaeda in Yemen.

Take a look at our highlights.

Chinese government faces popular backlash after death of whistleblower doctor

The Chinese government has been facing a flood of criticism on the country’s social media after the death of the doctor who was repressed by local Communist party authorities for being one of the first to warn about the existence of a new coronavirus strain in the city of Wuhan, epicenter of the recent epidemic. Ophthalmologist Li Wenliang died on Thursday, after being infected while treating his patients. Chinese internet users are posting messages demanding an apology from the government, and are accusing authorities of underestimating the seriousness of the epidemic and trying to cover up cases. All messages are quickly being censored.

Rondônia government orders seizure of 43 books from schools, but backs down

A document issued by the government of the Brazilian northern state of Rondônia ordered the removal of 43 books from the libraries of public schools. On the list were classic titles written by Machado de Assis, Mario de Andrade, Euclides da Cunha, among others, as well as several works by foreign authors. After the information was publicly disclosed yesterday, members of the state government at first tried to deny the fact, claiming it was “fake news”, but later claimed that the Education secretary had not signed the document. In some schools the listed books had even been placed in boxes, before being informed that the action had been canceled.

Bolsonaro authorizes Armed Forces in penitentiary housing PCC leader

Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro authorized the deployment of the Armed Forces to protect the outer perimeter of the Brasília maximum-security federal penitentiary. The leader of Brazil’s main criminal organization, First Command of the Capital (PCC) Marcos Willians Herbas Camacho, AKA Marcola, is under arrest at the institution. The Law and Order Guarantee decree was published today and will be in effect until May. In December 2019, the Army surrounded the building after receiving information of a plan to rescue Marcola.

São Paulo City Hall receives R$ 35 million seized from Maluf’s Jersey bank accounts

The public coffers of the city of São Paulo have received a deposit of R$ 34.944 million seized from bank accounts attributed to former mayor Paulo Maluf on the British island of Jersey. According to O Estado de S. Paulo, the figure is part of a larger amount of money, around R$ 200 million, which is yet to be repatriated, according to the city’s Prosecution Office for the Defense of Public Property. The amount which has returned to the country represents 10 percent of the 344 million embezzled by Maluf during his 1993-1996 term. The politician is currently under house arrest for the crime of money laundering.

US confirms al-Qaeda leader in Yemen killed in airstrike

The White House has confirmed that the leader of Islamist terrorist group al-Qaeda in Yemen, Qasim al-Rimi, was killed in operation by United States security forces. On Saturday, Yemeni tribal leaders informed that a building occupied by al-Qaeda militants in the eastern part of the country had been destroyed by drones in the previous week. “At the direction of President Donald J. Trump, the United States conducted a counterterrorism operation in Yemen that successfully eliminated Qasim al-Rimi, a founder and the leader of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and a deputy to al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri,” read the official statement. According to the US government, al-Rimi “committed unconscionable violence against civilians in Yemen and sought to conduct and inspire numerous attacks against the United States and our forces.”

Until next week, good evening.