Emily Wang/AP Photo

More than 100 people have died from a coronavirus outbreak that started in Wuhan, China, and more than 4,600 people have been infected across 17 countries.

The virus, which is marked by fevers and pneumonialike symptoms, likely originated in a wet market in Wuhan, an 11 million-person city in China's Hubei province.

On January 23, authorities put Wuhan under quarantine — halting all public transportation, including city buses, trains, and ferries. The order prevents any buses or trains from coming into or leaving the city and grounds all planes at the Wuhan airport. Wuhan authorities started to limit car travel the next day as well, The Guardian reported.

The city of Huanggang (which is home to around 7.5 million people) also went into lockdown last week, as authorities closed subway and train stations. By the following day, 10 additional cities — Chibi, Enshi, Ezhou, Huangshi, Suizhou, Qianjjiang, Xianning, Xiantao, Yichang, and Zhijiang — had followed suit with their own travel restrictions. As of Monday, the cities of Xiangyang, Jingmen, Xiaogan, and Dangyang were also quarantined.

Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director-general of the World Health Organization, said these efforts to quarantine cities will help Chinese authorities control the virus' spread and "minimize the chances of this outbreak spreading internationally."

"What they're doing is a very, very strong measure, and with full commitment," Ghebreyesus said in press conference last week.

Quarantining 50 million people

A Chinese girl wears a protective mask as her mother pushes her on a suitcase to board a train at Beijing Railway station before the annual Spring Festival on January 21, 2020 in Beijing, China. More

Kevin Frayer/Getty

All told, these restrictions affect an estimated 50 million people, according to The Washington Post.

Wuhan is China's fifth-largest city and more than 3,200 square miles in size. By comparison, New York City has about 8 million people — nearly 3 million fewer than Wuhan.

The city is split into three districts: Hankou, Wuchang, and Hanyang, with rivers cutting between them. Many people work in one district and live in another, so the ban on interdistrict travel cripples the city's normal functioning.

According to local authorities, citizens are no longer permitted to leave Wuhan without a "special reason." At noon local time Friday,

"To my knowledge, trying to contain a city of 11 million people is new to science," Gauden Galea, the WHO's China representative, told the Associated Press on Thursday. "It has not been tried before as a public-health measure, so we cannot at this stage say it will or will not work."

In Huanggang, meanwhile, officials ordered cinemas and internet cafes to close and told citizens not leave the city unless there are special circumstances, Reuters reported. The city's long-distance buses and trains were halted. The nearby city of Ezhou, too, closed its train stations, while bus travel in Chibi and Zhijiang, two smaller cities, has been stopped.

These quarantines come amid the Lunar New Year celebrations, which began on Saturday. Usually, the annual holiday fills the country's trains, planes, roads, and ferries, as 3 billion people journey home to be with family. However, the Chinese government has asked people to cancel plans to visit Wuhan, and Beijing's government canceled its Spring Festival events last week.

International efforts to stop the coronavirus outbreak