More than 81,000 people across the globe have so far been diagnosed with coronavirus.

The virus, officially named Covid-19, has already resulted in more than 2,600 deaths.

The most badly affected areas include Japan, which has seen 850 cases, including 691 from the Diamond Princess cruise ship docked in Yokohama, resulting in four deaths.

Italy, meanwhile, has recorded 229 cases and seven deaths and South Korea has had 893 cases and eight deaths.

There are four confirmed cases at a hotel in Tenerife popular with British tourists as an Italian doctor and his wife and two friends fell ill. Hundreds of guests have been told to stay in their rooms.

While there have been 13 confirmed cases in the UK, England’s chief medical officer, Professor Chris Whitty, the World Health Organisation is on the brink of declaring a pandemic.

Schools are beginning to close in the UK after a cluster of cases in northern Italy and four cases have been confirmed at a hotel in Tenerife, popular with British holidaymakers.

Hundreds of guests at the four-star H10 Costa Adeje Palace hotel on the south west of the island have been told to stay in their rooms until further notice.

(Image: AP)

But what is coronavirus, what are the symptoms and how best can you avoid it? We take a look.

What is coronavirus?

It is known as a novel coronavirus.

This means it is a member of the family of viruses - known as coronavirus - which has never previously been encountered.

Like many other illnesses of its type, it originated from animals with the source pinpointed at a food market in Huanan in the city of Wuhan, which has 11 million residents.

Many of those initially infected, in January 2020, either worked or frequently shopped at the seafood wholesale market.

Other viruses which have originated in animal hosts include Ebola.

How many people have been infected?

There have been more than 80,000 cases globally - as of February 25.

The majority are from mainland China where there have been 2,663 confirmed deaths among 77,658 cases, chiefly in Hubei.

More than 12,000 people affected there have made a recovery.

Coronavirus has spread to at least 30 countries across the globe.

As of February 26, there are 13 confirmed cases (but no deaths) in the UK.

Is it like Sars and Mers?

The severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) and Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome (Mers) were both caused by coronaviruses that originated from animals.

Sars was first reported in China late in 2002. Initially, like in this case, the authorities played down the reports of the flu-like illness, which led it spreading unchecked to 26 countries, causing widespread global panic.

More than 8,000 people were infected and 750 people died. The number of people infected with the new coronavirus, has now (as of February 2020) surpassed this figure, although fewer people have died.

(Image: AP)

The chief difference between 2020 is that while the authorities may originally have downplayed the outbreak, they have been quicker to introduce measures to control it - shutting down the market and ultimately putting the city in lockdown.

Mers, which originated in dromedaries in 2012, was harder to pass from human to human but had a higher death rate - killing 858 of the 2,494 people who became infected.

In both Sars and Mers, the original hosts for both coronaviruses was probably bats.

Sars began in bats then spread to civet cats before it first infected humans.

What are the symptoms?

The virus causes pneumonia and those who have become ill have reported coughs, fever and breathing difficulties.

But these symptoms do not necessarily mean you have the illness.

As this is viral pneumonia, there's no point taking antibiotics.

Anti-viral drugs can be used, but they only usually reduce the severity of the symptoms.

(Image: Getty Images)

Those who have died have mostly - but not exclusively - been known to already have underlying health conditions.

In severe cases, there can be organ failure.

The antiviral drugs we currently use against flu will not work.

Recovery depends on the strength of patients' immune system.

Is is being transferred from human to human?

It has been confirmed to be transmitting in this way.

The recent cluster of cases in northern Italy - which have not been traced back to a Patient Zero - have demonstrated how it is spreading from human to human.

Professor Whitty previously said: "The NHS is extremely well prepared and used to managing infections and we are already working rapidly to identify any contacts the patients had, to prevent further spread.



"We have been preparing for UK cases of novel coronavirus and we have robust infection control measures in place to respond immediately."

He warned schools could be shut and public transport reduced if coronavirus becomes a global pandemic.

Several schools in the UK were shut on Wednesday as students were sent home over fears they may have been exposed to the coronavirus during ski trips in northern Italy.

Should I go to the doctor if I have symptoms?

The medical advice in the UK is that if you have recently travelled from areas affected by coronavirus you should stay indoors and avoid contact with other people (as you would with flu).

And call NHS 111 to inform them of your recent travel to the area.

More NHS advice on what to do if you think you may have been exposed to the virus, is available here.

The current advice is the risk to individuals "remains low".

When should I call NHS 111?

If you've visited Hubei province in China in the last 14 days, or Iran or the areas of Italy north of Pisa or South Korea since February 19.

If you have been in parts of mainland China, South Korea, Thailand, Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia or Macau in the last 14 days and have a cough, high temperature or shortness of breath.

If you've been to other parts of northern Italy (anywhere north of Pisa, Florence and Rimini), Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos or Myanmar since February 19 and have those symptoms.

Or if you've been in close contact with someone with confirmed coronavirus.

Do not go to a GP surgery, pharmacy or hospital. Call 111, stay indoors and avoid contact with other people.

How dangerous is it?

The mortality rate is around two per cent in China, and less than that elsewhere. Sars had a mortality rate of more than 10 per cent.

Unlike flu, there's no vaccine which means it is more difficult for vulnerable members of the community to protect themselves.

How concerned are the scientists?

(Image: Getty Images)

Scientists are concerned although the World Health Organisation has yet to declare a pandemic.

A pandemic is the worldwide spread of a disease across a number of countries.

Although the spread of the virus beyond China is clearly worrying it is not unexpected.

The key concern now is how transmissable coronavirus is between people and how many people become severely ill and end up in hospital.

Generally, older people are being hardest hit and there have been relatively few cases seen in children.

Severe acute respiratory syndrome, which is caused by a coronavirus, killed 774 of the 8,098 people infected in an outbreak that began in China in 2002.

Around one in five cases are thought to be severe. The infection rarely causes a running nose or sneezing.

While the ratio of deaths to infections appears to be low, the figures are not reliable and it is too simplistic to divide the number of cases by the number of deaths.

China's National Health Commission said the transmission ability of the virus is getting strong but it is unclear on the risks posed by any potential mutations of the virus.

Should I be buying a face mask?

(Image: Getty Images)

No. While the spread of the virus outside of China is of concern it is not an unexpected development.

The key issues are how transmissable it is and how many people will become severely ill and end up in hospital.

Health workers could be at risk if they unexpectedly encounter someone with respiratory symptoms who has travelled to an affected region recently.

The World Health Organisation said it is not a pandemic, but it could be declared one. A pandemic is classed as "the worldwide spread of a disease".

Cover your mouth with a tissue or your sleeve when you cough or sneeze. Put used tissues in the bin immediately and wash your hands with soap and water frequently.

Avoid contact with people who are unwell.

Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are unclean.

Who's most at risk?

So far, older people are being hit hardest. This may because they already have existing health conditions which make them more susceptible to the new virus.

Follow UK News and World editor Helen Carter on social media To follow Helen on Twitter, click here. Or to like her Facebook page and keep up to date with the latest UK and World news, click here. Here's the link to the M.E.N's main Facebook page where we share our latest stories.

Children have not yet been impacted by it. Basic hygiene measures, such as frequent hand washing, are a simple way to protect yourself.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock has said the NHS is "ready to respond appropriately" to any cases of coronavirus that emerge in the UK.

(Image: Getty Images)

He said the situation was being "closely monitored" and precautionary and proportionate measures have been put in place.

How can it be prevented?

It is clear the virus will not stop on its own and measures have been brought in to bring it to an end - limiting people's movement, encouraging hand washing and treating patients in isolation with healthcare workings wearing protective gear.

The quarantine of the cruise ship in Japan proved to be ineffective, as hundreds of people were infected.

Increased surveillance is the key to preventing the spread of the virus. Countries such as the United States, Japan, South Korea, Thailand, Indonesia, Hong Kong and the Philippines have brought in extra checks.

There will be screening of passengers for a high temperature at airports in Australia and the US.

As with every virus, it has an incubation period meaning it's not always possible to detect it as the symptoms have yet to appear.

People are infectious even before their symptoms appear and the time between infection and symptoms lasts from one to 14 days.

The virus is carried into the air during normal breathing and talking by the infected person.