A Massachusetts man faces charges in Blair County over allegations he carried out a phone scam that netted thousands from a Frankstown Township victim.

Liang Ma, 37, of Quincy, Mass., turned himself in to state police on Friday for arraignment on felony charges of attempted theft by deception and theft by deception stemming from the alleged scamming of a Frankstown Township man in September.

According to charges filed by state police, the Frankstown Township man was contacted in early September by a man identifying himself as an attorney. The caller told the Frankstown Township man that his grandson was in jail and $4,000 was needed for his release. State police indicated the caller directed the man to send $4,000 in cash to a bondsman in Milton, Mass., and that the Frankstown Township man then sent the money by UPS.

State police said the Frankstown Township man received a confirmation on Sept. 4 that the package was picked up and that same day, he was contacted again by the caller and was told in order to get his grandson out of jail, he would have to send an additional $4,000 in cash to the same bail bondsman and at the same address as before.

The Frankstown Township man received confirmation on Sept. 5 that the package was delivered by UPS. On the same day, he learned his grandson was not in jail and that he had been scammed.

When the caller contacted the man again and told him he needed to send $9,000 in cash, the Frankstown Township man agreed and called state police.

State police indicated the Frankstown Township man asked that he send an empty package in an attempt to nab the scammer and after state police arranged with police in Milton, Mass., to check out the address. State police said the address was that of a vacant home that was for sale, and Milton police agreed to have officers in the area when the package was scheduled for delivery at noon Sept. 7.

State police noted that Massachusetts police made contact with Ma at the Milton address connected to the scam after Ma claimed the empty parcel sent by the Frankstown Township man.

A search of Ma’s car turned up the third package that was sent along with $4,000 in cash, which police said consisted of 40 $100 bills that matched the denominations sent by the Frankstown Township man.

Ma was charged by Milton police with larceny and on Friday, Ma appeared before Magisterial District Judge Paul Aigner for his arraignment on the felony charges filed by state police at Hollidaysburg.

Ma was accompanied by his attorney, Dan Kiss, and immediately waived his charges on to Blair County Court.

“We want to see the commonwealth’s case before we decide any actions on it,” Kiss said on Friday, pointing out his client is Chinese and doesn’t speak English.

Ma was released on an unsecured $10,000 bond and is scheduled for a formal arraignment in Blair County Court on Feb. 21.

Mirror Staff Writer Greg Bock is at 946-7458.