A grey-haired man lies dead on the pavement, plastic bag in hand, face mask on. His cause of death and identity remain unclear, but the authorities in the Chinese city of Wuhan - ground zero for the coronavirus outbreak that the World Health Organisation has now classed a global emergency - are not taking any chances. As rare passersby on the city's empty streets hurry past the grim scene, not daring to stop, a team of police and medical staff in full body protection arrive and take the body away. Wuhan is in its tenth day of quarantine, part of a bid to contain the disease, and this normally bustling city of 11 million people is now a ghost town, full of fear. Millions are stranded after rail and flight links have been severed, and private vehicles have been banned from the road. The government has advised all residents to remain indoors to minimise potential exposure to the virus as the numbers infected continue to multiply - there are now more than 11,000 confirmed cases, including across every province in China, and more than 259have died. But people living in the city say they can't keep hiding.

People arrive from Hubei province attempting to cross a checkpoint at the Jiujiang Yangtze River Bridge in Jiujiang Credit : Thomas Peter /Reuters

"Now I know how dogs must feel – when you’re inside all the time, you really do want to step outside to go around a bit," said Li Xiaolei, a radio DJ in Wuhan, in his daily video blog. "People walk their dogs; well, I'm going to walk myself." So Mr Li dons a face mask – which press marks on his face after a few hours – and leaves his apartment, stepping into an elevator that reeks of disinfectant. “I have to take out the trash anyway.” But there are reminders of the peril he is in at every corner, including, across China, propaganda banners that deliver grim warnings against group gatherings: “If you come to people’s doors today, pneumonia will come to your door tomorrow,” reads one. “Those who come out and gather are shameless; those who play mahjong together are villains,” proclaims another. These days, in many Chinese cities and villages, the only home visits come from local neighbourhood committees checking in on people’s health conditions. The Chinese authorities are trying to curb further disease spread by sealing off the most heavily impacted part of the country and shutting down large events elsewhere. But experts have said it may be too little, too late, as many people had travelled already ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday.

Back in Wuhan, when the shutdown began over a week ago, residents rushed to the markets, stocking up on fresh produce and meat, and clearing shop shelves of face masks and disinfectant products of every kind – hand gel, wipes, cleaning sprays, soap. Mr Li joined the dash last Saturday, posting on social media a clip of the rare trip outdoors. “Good luck fighting for the produce!” he cheered, dropping his friend off first to get a head start on hoarding the food. “What kind of vegetables are these? Are these the only leafy greens available?” he asked her in the store. “No idea, and yes,” she responded. “Ok, just grab them!” Now many shelves are bare; city pharmacies are taping “out-of-stock” signs on their doors, and public areas are being doused in disinfectant even in the capital of Beijing, 700 miles away. Many gyms in a number of locations have closed and the ones that remain open require a fever check at the entrance, with some sending notices about the disinfecting schedule to members.