The World Health Organisation (WHO) held off on declaring the spread of the virus an international emergency as it seeks more information from China. An emergency committee of 21 members of advisers met in Geneva on Wednesday. The committee members were split on the vote.

While a sense of panic is spreading throughout China where hundreds of millions of people have packed trains and planes as they travel around the country to visit relatives, the city of Wuhan where the virus originated from a seafood market is the only part of the country subject to strict quarantine measures.

Many residents raced to catch early flights out of the city before the city's bus, metro, ferry and other long-distance transport services were suspended from 10am (1pm AEST) on Thursday. The measures were announced the previous evening, prompting some residents to try and leave while they could.

Footage on social media showed traffic banked up on a major highway out of the city banked up for five kilometres. Authorities were reportedly screening travellers attempting to leave the city by road with temperature check points in place.

There were also chaotic scenes at the city's hospitals which turned up away many of the thousands of people arriving, fearing they had symptoms of the virus, because there were not enough bed.

Several Wuhan residents who spoke to The Australian Financial Review by telephone said they were stockpiling food after being told shopping malls and supermarkets would be closed. However, they said there was not an overwhelming sense of panic although they knew of people being turned away from hospitals. While schools and many businesses were already closing for the Lunar New Year holiday, many restaurants and temples which are traditionally packed at this time of the year closed their doors.

China has never attempted to isolate one of its major cities by shutting down transport networks, even during the 2003 SARS crisis. Wuhan's population is twice the size of Sydney and bigger than New York or London.

Advertisement

The authorities also announced it would be compulsory for residents to wear face masks in all public places in the city.

The drastic initiatives came as the Chinese government moved to halt the spread of the disease which has now infected people in 25 provinces and regions around China and spread to neighbouring countries. Hong Kong reported two confirmed cases on Wednesday.

Despite the rising concern, China's state-controlled media played down the extent of the outbreak. The front page of the Communist Party mouthpiece, The People's Daily, featured positive stories about Lunar New Year President Xi Jinping's visit to Yunan province in south-west China. There was no mention of the virus until page four.

Face masks were selling out in many cities. There were long queues at a large pharmacy in Shanghai on Wednesday afternoon where masks were being rationed at one box of 10 per customer. One taxi driver said on Thursday he was refusing to pick up passengers from the airport in Shanghai because he was worried about being infected. On Thursday morning, most of the passengers riding the city's metro were wearing face masks.

Still, hundreds of millions of people continued to pack train stations and airports to travel home for the Lunar New Year holiday. Health authorities said they were checking passengers at airports and train and bus stations for symptoms of the respiratory virus, which has raised fears of a repeat of the 2003 SARS crisis.

The United States also reported its first case of the coronavirus, which can be spread from human to human. An Australian man has been tested for the virus after returning to Brisbane from Wuhan.

AAP