A ninth person under investigation (PUI) for novel Coronavirus (nCoV) was admitted at a Bacolod hospital yesterday, Bacolod Vice Mayor El Cid Familiaran said. He also said that of the eight other PUIs in Bacolod, three who tested negative for the deadly virus had been discharged, three others found negative are to be discharged, and two are awaiting results. Of the six patients currently admitted, four are from Bacolod. The patients have travel histories to Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, and Zhuhai (China). All patients are in stable condition. The Corazon Locsin Montelibano Memorial Hospital and six private hospitals are open to accommodate patients for isolation and management, the vice mayor said. In Negros Oriental all eight PUIs admitted have tested negative as of yesterday, Bimbo Miraflor, Capitol spokesperson, said. The Provincial Health Office is waiting for the confirmatory test of the eight PUIs and if all are still negative, they will be discharged from the Negros Oriental Provincial Hospital, he added. All eight are doing well and no longer have respiratory symptoms, Dr. Liland Estacion, assistant provincial health officer, said. No new PUIs have been admitted in Negros Oriental, she also said. There were only three out of 78 persons under monitoring for nCoV remaining in Negros Oriental as of yesterday, she said. The monitoring of the Polish and two Chinese nationals under self quarantine will end tomorrow. In Manila, President Rodrigo Duterte yesterday vowed to repatriate overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) should the nCoV outbreak worsen. “If people are dying and Filipinos are being pushed away. Whether you like it or not, I will bring them home. I will bring them home because they have no other country to seek shelter,” Duterte said in a speech during an assembly with governors and mayors in Pasay City. Negros Occidental Gov. Eugenio Jose Lacson and the mayors of the province were at the gathering. The President also assured the public that government is prepared to handle all public emergencies in case a worst-case scenario happens. Duterte said he is willing to tap the military if the 2019-nCoV becomes a pandemic.*CPG/PNA back to top