A plan by US officials to halt a civilian drone program used by scientific and rescue teams has been criticized by agency employees.

Last October the US Department of the Interior, which oversees federal land management, said it had grounded all its aerial drone program of more than 800 craft.

Concerns over Chinese spying and drone-aided cyber attacks were cited as the reason behind the move to potentially shelve the devices permanently.

Drones have been used by US government departments to rescue people, including a man following a volcanic explosion in Hawaii in 2018.

They are also used by scientists to map terrain, survey land, monitor earthquakes and inspect pipelines.

A DJI Mavic Pro pictured (above). The US Army banned troops from using leading Chinese drone maker DJI's drones due to fears of unspecified cyber-security concerns

But as the US Department of the Interior's drones are all either manufactured in China or use some Chinese-made parts, their use has been suspended pending a review.

Officials are investigating if they pose a risk to national security and could permanently end the program.

Drones that are used to fight wild fires and help rescue people are still allowed to fly, the department said.

Staff at several agencies have protested about the proposals to halt the use of the drones for good as it could put lives at risk.

Gary Baumgartner, who retired from the Bureau of Land Management last June, said concerns were widespread among staff.

He told the Financial Times: 'Without drones, we often have to fly manned aircraft, which is much more expensive, and frequently dangerous for those involved.'

A document by the Fish and Wildlife Service outlined ways its operations had already been affected by the temporary ban.

These included cancelled flights to monitor controlled burns in order to reduce wildfires and an operation to help count animals in specific areas.

DJI Phantom 4 Pro drone displayed at a DJI store in Guangzhou. Last October the US Department of the Interior grounded all its aerial drone program of more than 800 Chinese-made craft

The Geological Survey said its staff use drones in eight different ways, such as flood response, monitoring agricultural sites and preparing for earthquakes.

One staff member told the FT: 'Unmanned aircraft systems are a unique tool that fit into this mission and allow us to make high-quality surface observations at a fraction of the price of manned aircraft operations.'

In August 2017, the US Army banned troops from using leading Chinese drone maker DJI's drones due to fears of unspecified cyber-security concerns.

A spokesman for DJI told DailyMail.com: 'While we have not seen the new policy, we look forward to reviewing the findings of DOI's ''comprehensive review'' of its drone program given the lack of credible evidence to support a broad country-of-origin restriction on drone technology.

'DJI drones continue to be among the industry's most safe, secure and trusted drone platforms, and we urge policymakers and industry stakeholders to come together to create clear standards that will give commercial and government drone operators the assurance they need to confidently evaluate drone technology, no matter where it is made.

A DJI Drone Store in Shenzhen, China. US officials are reviewing their use of Chinese-made drone equipment

Despite deep suspicion of Chinese technology among US officials, tensions between the two countries eased this week when President Trump signed the first phase of a new trade deal with China.

The agreement, signed in the White House on Wednesday, appeared to end a trade war, begun when Trump imposed punitive tariffs on Chinese goods in 2018.

The Trump administration previously put Chinese telecoms equipment giant Huawei on a trade blacklist on national security concerns last May, banning it from buying supplies from American firms without US government approval.

It prompted other global tech giants to cut ties with the Chinese company and putting pressure on European countries to follow suit.

Washington has also been putting pressure on its Western allies to stop using the Chinese company's equipment.

It has also taken measures to crimp exports of artificial intelligence software.