A couple who visited Hawaii was confirmed to have coronavirus when they returned home to Japan, Hawaii officials said Friday.

Health officials were tracking down details about their travel in the Aloha State, including his flight information and people with whom he had close contact.

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) notified Hawaii about the man having the illness known as COVID-19 on Friday morning, Hawaii Health Director Bruce Anderson said. His wife had not yet been diagnosed.

The couple was in Hawaii January 28 to February 7. They first visited the island of Maui, where neither person showed symptoms, Anderson said, but the man developed symptoms while on Oahu, the state's most populated island, between February 3 and 7.

He developed more serious symptoms when he returned to Japan, where he was tested and found to be positive for the illness, Anderson. He did not seek medical care in Hawaii, Anderson said.

Because of when his symptoms began, officials believe he became infected in Japan or while in transit to Hawaii, said state epidemiologist Dr Sarah Park.

On Saturday, the man's wife was confirmed to have the virus as well, but did not show symptoms while in Hawaii.

Hawaii Governor David Ige, center, state Health Director Bruce Anderson, left, and state Epidemiologist Sarah Park, right announced Friday that a tourist who visited the state was diagnosed with coronavirus after returning home to Japan (AP Photo/Jennifer Sinco Kelleher)

So far, only 15 people have been infected in the US. No patients have yet been confirmed in Hawaii

Delta Airlines, alongside Hawaiian Airlines, admitted that the infected couple had flown on one of its planes. Delta's flight 611 carries about 200 passengers who may have been exposed

He is from Japan's Aichi Prefecture. The man was traveling with his wife, and while on Oahu, they stayed in Grand Waikikian By Hilton, officials said.

'Our focus at this point is to try and understand who potentially this person may have had close, prolonged contact,' Park said, adding that they're concentrating on his whereabouts while on Oahu because that's where he developed symptoms.

If any close contacts are identified, those people would be isolated for 14 days, Anderson said.

Japan has about 250 confirmed cases of the new disease that apparently started in Wuhan, a city in central China, in December.

Japan announced Thursday its first death from the virus, hours after confirming 44 more cases on a cruise ship quarantined near Tokyo as fears of the spreading disease mount in the country.

So far, only 15 US cases of the coronavirus have been confirmed, and no deaths.

All but two of the cases were in people who had traveled to Wuhan, China, the epicenter of the international outbreak. The remaining two were spread from travelers to their spouses.

One American has died of the virus, while hospitalized in Wuhan. Worldwide, more than 71,700 people are infected, and 1,775 have died.

The couple are among more than 71,000 people worldwide who have been sickened by coronavirus since the outbreak began in december

On Monday, Hazmat-clad workers met the 340 American passengers evacuated from the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Texas. Of those, 14 were infected with coronavirus and transported in isolation chambers

No one has died in the US, but more than 1,700 people in China have, including one American who was in Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak. Pictured: a health care worker in China monitors the blood oxygen levels of a coronavirus patient

On Monday, another 14 infected Americans were flown back to the mainland US in isolation chambers after disembarking from the Diamond Princess cruise ship that's been quarantined in Japan for the past two weeks.

All 340 passengers - both those with coronavirus and those who have not shown signs of the infection - will face another 14 days of quarantine at military bases in Texas and California.

An additional 600-some passengers evacuated from Wuhan remain under quarantine in California, Texas and Nebraska.

Thus far, no one in Hawaii has tested positive for the infection.

However, John Fujiwara, 52, believes he may have come into contact with the man on Oahu.

Worldwide, more than 1,700 people have died of coronavirus and more than 71,000 have been infected in 24 countries. Deaths have only been reported in five places outside mainland China

Fujiwara told the New York Times that he had coffee with a friend visiting from Japan on February 4. He offered to self-isolate, but local health authorities told him to hold off and wait to see if he developed symptoms by Tuesday.

According to the New York Times, the Hawaii Department of Health would not confirm whether or not his friend was the same Japanese visitor diagnosed with coronavirus.

The couple stayed at the Grand Waikikian, by Hilton Grand Vacations on Oahu, and the man came down with cold-like symptoms while there between February 3 and 7.

The couple flew from Kahului on Maui to Honolulu on Hawaiian Airlines flight HA265 back from Honolulu on Delta Flight 611 on February 6.

Delta said it's working with the CDC and Japanese authorities to contact the flight's 200 passengers and warn them they could have been exposed to the virus.