

The U.S. State Department has raised the travel warning to China as the deadly coronavirus outbreak escalates, urging Americans to reconsider travel to the entire country. It increased the warning on Monday from a Level 2: Exercise Increased Caution to Level 3: Reconsider Travel.

It follows a Level 4 advisory issued to the Hubei province, where the virus was first identified in the capital city of Wuhan.

China officials reported on Monday 106 deaths and more than 4,000 confirmed cases of the respiratory illness, which has now spread to at least 11 other countries and regions.

The CDC has also updated its warning on Monday to its highest level, urging Americans to avoid all nonessential travel to China.

On advice of the Chinese government and in an effort to contain the virus, U.S. airlines have extended travel waivers. American Airlines and Delta Air Lines on Monday each extended change fee waivers through the end of February, which were originally valid through the end of January. United Airlines also extended waivers for change fees on flights to Beijing, Shanghai or Chengdu through the end of February; last week, the carrier offered waivers through Feb. 7.

The CDC said it is now monitoring for symptoms of the virus among passengers arriving at 20 U.S. airports, with screening of passengers from Wuhan at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, San Francisco International Airport, Los Angeles International Airport, Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, and Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport.

Cruise lines with ports of call or homeporting in China have canceled sailings. Chinese travel agencies have been ordered to cancel group trips, which make up the bulk of cruise lines' business.

Costa Cruises, in close coordination with the Chinese authorities, said it decided to temporarily suspend its nine upcoming voyages originally scheduled to depart from Chinese ports between Jan. 25 - Feb. 4. Costa will be offering a full refund of the cruise fare and port fees to impacted guests or the opportunity to reschedule their trips.

Royal Caribbean Cruises has canceled three sailings through Feb. 8 on Spectrum of the Seas, currently its only ship homeported in China, departing from Shanghai. Additionally, boarding will be denied fleet-wide to guests or crewmembers who have travelled to the Hubei Province in China, a spokesperson said. Any guests who have transited through other regions in China in the past 14 days will receive secondary, medical screenings to determine sailing eligibility.

MSC has reportedly canceled the MSC Splendida that had been scheduled to depart from Shanghai on Jan. 28.