Scoot Suspends Flights Between Singapore & Mainland China As Precaution Against Wuhan Virus

The battle against the Wuhan virus continues, as Singapore companies have joined the fight in taking drastic precautionary measures to protect the people.

Scoot announced on Friday (31 Jan) that they will be temporarily suspending all flights between Singapore and mainland China starting next Saturday (8 Feb).

This comes after Singapore declared they are denying entry to new visitors who’ve been to China in the last 14 days.

Scoot suspends flights to China till 28 Mar

According to Scoot’s website, here are further details on the suspended flights and suspension period. A total of 19 Chinese cities are listed.

Source

While suspension starts 8 Feb for most cities, the cessation of flights between Singapore and 6 other cities will begin as early as 5 Feb:

Harbin

Hangzhou

Shenyang

Xi’an

Nanning

Zhengzhou.

And as we all know, flights to Wuhan city – the epicentre of the highly infectious coronavirus – have already stopped since 23 Jan.

Scoot cutting down number of China flights till 7 Feb

In the meantime, Scoot will be flying at reduced frequencies to 8 Chinese cities:

Fuzhou

Guangzhou

Haikou

Qingdao

Changsha

Jinan

Nanjing

Tianjin

You can check the table below for details.

Source

Affected customers will be fully refunded

Scoot says that customers who booked any of the flights affected will be 100% refunded within 24 hours.

Other things you can take note is that from 2 Feb, flights plying routes to and from mainland China will have limited in-flight services.

You won’t be able to buy food, drinks, and duty-free products. Instead, you’ll receive a food pack and water.

Pre-booked meals and pre-paid sales items will also be refunded.

Hopeful for zero community spread

As fear of the Wuhan virus continues to grip the world, Singaporeans are doing all they can to curb the spread of the outbreak.

From buying face masks and sanitisers, to avoiding crowded places, here’s to keeping yourself clean, and keeping our community safe.

You can also head down to your nearest RC at 2pm today (31 Jan) to collect your face masks if you require them.

Also read:

Featured image adapted from Scoot.