Spreading rapidly and changing daily, coronavirus an enigmatic public health threat

Infectious disease expert John Swartzberg discusses the coronavirus in his public health class at UC Berkeley. Infectious disease expert John Swartzberg discusses the coronavirus in his public health class at UC Berkeley. Photo: Kate Munsch / Special To The Chronicle Photo: Kate Munsch / Special To The Chronicle Image 1 of / 7 Caption Close Spreading rapidly and changing daily, coronavirus an enigmatic public health threat 1 / 7 Back to Gallery

Even as the new coronavirus explodes across China and expands its reach globally, it looks increasingly unlikely that it will similarly wreak havoc in the United States, say Bay Area infectious disease experts who have studied previous international outbreaks like SARS and the H1N1 epidemic.

But there are still many unknowns about the new virus — including how easily it spreads and how serious of an illness it causes.

The virus officially arrived in the Bay Area on Friday, when a man in Santa Clara County tested positive. The man had returned from China on Jan. 24 and has mild symptoms, and public health officials stressed that the one case did not pose a significant threat to the general public.

On Thursday, the United States reported its first case of the virus passing from one person to another, and the World Health Organization declared the new virus a global emergency. On Friday, the U.S. declared a public health emergency, a move to rally resources to contain the virus.

“Things are evolving, changing. What was true two weeks ago or 10 days ago or four days ago may not be true today or tomorrow. So it’s really hard to characterize this as good, bad, ugly or whatever,” said Dr. Art Reingold, an infectious disease expert at UC Berkeley. “But I’m optimistic that this is going to largely be a nonevent in the United States.

“That doesn’t make it a nonevent in terms of public health response and scientific learning,” he added. “And it certainly isn’t a nonevent for the global economy and China.”

Reingold said Friday that the new Bay Area case is not surprising, given how much travel happens between the region — especially Silicon Valley — and China. He agreed with public health officials that the community threat remains low.

As of Saturday, eight cases of the new coronavirus — which can cause serious respiratory problems and can be fatal — had been reported in the United States, including the Santa Clara County patient and two patients in Southern California. Seven of those cases are people who almost certainly were infected in Wuhan, China, where the epidemic started. One of the cases was the husband of a woman in Illinois who was infected in China; the husband had not traveled.

All of the U.S. patients are in stable condition.

What Bay Area residents should do about coronavirus If you’ve recently traveled to China: Monitor for symptoms of infection, including fever, cough and difficulty breathing. If you feel sick, call a doctor or advice nurse before seeking treatment. If you’ve been in close contact with someone who tested positive for coronavirus: Monitor for symptoms of infection. Avoid large crowds or social gatherings until told otherwise by doctors or public health authorities. If you have not traveled to China and have no close contacts with coronavirus: No protective measures — including wearing face masks or avoiding crowds — are recommended at this time.

In China, the virus is clearly passing from person to person in the community and has spread to all parts of the country, despite the government creating a quarantine ring around Wuhan, a city of 11 million people. Roughly 14,380 cases have been reported internationally, with more than 300 deaths in China and one in the Philippines. Most infectious disease experts believe that the patient count is probably much higher.

Worldwide, the virus has been reported in two dozen countries. Most of the cases originated in China, but several countries are reporting person-to-person transmissions.

Most infectious disease and public health experts say the epidemic is likely to continue, at least in China, well into spring. But they’re closely watching developments in the outbreak to understand how this mysterious new virus will impact the world in the coming weeks, months and years.

How infectious is the new coronavirus? How easily the virus spreads is one of the key questions in determining how best to stop it — or if it even can be stopped. Reports so far suggest that every person who becomes infected has the potential to spread the disease to two to four others; that makes it somewhat more infectious than influenza, but far less than measles.

But those reports are based on very early evidence and could change dramatically as more refined data are collected. With infection-control efforts — such as isolating known cases and closely monitoring people they’ve come in contact with — the spread can be stopped.

Part of the reason the new virus has taken off in China is because it was probably circulating for weeks, and possibly months, before the first cases were identified, infectious disease experts said. By the time the government realized it was dealing with a new virus, it was already embedded in the community.

The United States is hoping to prevent a similar situation by advising people who have recently been to China to closely monitor themselves for symptoms and to contact a doctor if they think they may be sick. And people who test positive for the virus are being kept in isolation in hospitals or at home, even if they’re not seriously ill.

“The United States is well equipped to handle this,” said Dr. John Swartzberg, an infectious disease expert at UC Berkeley who is using the outbreak as a teaching tool in a public health class. “Of course, being well equipped and responding appropriately are two different things. But we have the knowledge base to control it, and the capability.”

One complicating factor: A few reports have emerged of asymptomatic people transmitting the virus to others. That could make prevention much more challenging if public health experts can’t rely on isolating only those who are actively sick.

How does this outbreak compare with previous ones? It’s too soon to say how the new coronavirus will stack up against other global outbreaks, including SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and MERS (Middle East respiratory syndrome), both of which also were caused by coronaviruses.

In China, there have been more cases of the new disease in just over a month than there were of SARS over one year. But the new virus so far seems less deadly than its sister pathogens.

SARS infected about 8,000 people before disappearing in 2004, in part because of major public health efforts to stop transmission, though infectious disease experts say they still can’t say exactly why it went away. MERS is still circulating, but seems to be much less effective at passing from person to person; it has infected 2,500 people since it was first reported in 2012.

But those aren’t the only new viruses to suddenly appear in the current century. Another new coronavirus, known as NL63, causes mild illness and is now endemic among populations worldwide. In fact, four coronaviruses account for 10% to 30% of all common colds, according to some reports.

Other modern outbreaks have involved the Ebola virus, which is highly fatal and spreads from person to person, but is relatively easily contained with a strong public health response. And the largest new-virus epidemic of the century was the H1N1 influenza outbreak in 2009; that strain is now a regular feature of the annual flu season.

With the new coronavirus, the goal is to keep it from becoming endemic, which means making sure that transmission is stopped before it’s too widespread to be contained. That’s why China has quarantined such a large part of the country, and why other nations have stepped up border controls and screening efforts to identify new cases.

“The intervention in China is called a cordon sanitaire — it just means you put a ring around it and don’t let anyone in or out until it all burns itself out,” said Dr. George Rutherford, head of the division of infectious diseases and epidemiology at UCSF.

On Friday, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention took the unusual step of ordering a two-week quarantine of all 195 passengers of a plane that had recently flown from Wuhan to Southern California. The passengers, all U.S. citizens evacuated from China, will be forced to stay at an air base in Riverside County while they are closely monitored for symptoms of illness.

Also Friday, the Trump administration suspended entry of foreign travelers from China to the United States in response to the outbreak. And the administration announced that, starting Sunday, U.S. citizens returning to the country from parts of China most affected will face mandatory quarantine of up to two weeks.

Known cases of coronavirus in the U.S. are being isolated, and their contacts are being monitored for signs of illness. But broader and more dramatic actions like quarantine of all suspected cases would be overkill at this time, Rutherford said.

Another key development that public health officials are looking for are “super-spreaders.” These are individual patients who are somehow able to transmit a virus to dozens of others. In SARS, one person in Canada was linked to 128 cases in a hospital; in MERS, a single patient in South Korea was connected to 186 hospital infections.

So far no super-spreaders have been found in the new coronavirus outbreak.

How to keep the public informed but not panicked: One of the most challenging aspects of any new outbreak is getting factual, useful information to the public without causing widespread alarm.

The CDC, for example, has been holding regular news conferences to update the media and the public about new cases and efforts to prevent transmission, but every meeting includes reassurances that the risk to the general public remains low.

So far, federal and state public health authorities seem to be striking the right balance between protecting the public by looking for and isolating new cases and not creating panic, infectious disease experts said. But there is still a lot of fear.

“The unknown is so much more difficult for us to cope with than the known,” said Swartzberg, noting that people don’t generally worry much about influenza, even though it kills tens of thousands of people in the United States every year.

He said he and his colleagues at UC Berkeley have fielded calls and emails from students and staff about how concerned they should be and why the university or the government aren’t taking certain actions — such as quarantining everyone who has recently been to China — to protect the public.

“It can be difficult to explain why you don’t do everything possible and institute immediate draconian measures,” he said. “Any public health response is to balance the safety of the public and the integrity and privacy of the individual. Right now, draconian measures seem inappropriate. A week from now we may have to change our minds.”

Dr. Jay Levy, an infectious disease specialist at UCSF, said he also has taken calls from friends and colleagues worried about the new coronavirus. Some of them are getting misinformation from social media — including one person who had heard that dozens of travelers from Wuhan were landing Wednesday at San Francisco International Airport and being quarantined at San Francisco General Hospital.

None of that is true. Levy’s friend probably had been misinformed about the flight from China that landed in Southern California on Wednesday.

“With ignorance comes all sorts of stories that make people panic,” Levy said. “And the only thing that can put it to rest is to have the public health people come forward and say, ‘This is the information we know.’”

Erin Allday is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. Email: eallday@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @erinallday