CLOSE With a viral outbreak prompting the WHO to declare a global health emergency, let's take a look at what a coronavirus is. Courier Journal

Kyle Johnson can’t enter his high-rise apartment tower outside Shanghai without being greeted by men in white biosafety suits who take his temperature each time to check for signs of the coronavirus.

Although he’s hundreds of miles from Wuhan, China, where the outbreak of the deadly flu-like illness began, the international school where the Kentucky native teaches history is closed, along with many local shops and restaurants. Taxi drivers who ferry him for groceries wear face masks. The area has a 9 p.m. curfew.

“It feels a little like a ghost town,” said Johnson, who grew up in Woodford County and lived for a time in Louisville before taking a teaching job in China about six months ago.

Johnson, 30, is among a wide range of Kentucky-connected teachers, students, business people and others affected by the travel restrictions and global response to the deadly coronavirus outbreak, which had infected more than 31,400 people.

The death toll was at nearly 640 Friday, with almost all of those in China.

Just 12 cases have been confirmed in the U.S., according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

More coverage: Here's what you should know about the coronavirus in Kentucky

Kentucky native Kyle Johnson, who teaches at an international school near Shanghai, has been living amid the coronavirus outbreak in China (Photo: Courtesy of Kyle Johnson)

The U.S. and other nations have moved to temporarily block the entry of noncitizens from China, and hundreds of Americans who were evacuated from China are being quarantined for two weeks.

In China, officials have restricted people's movement and closed some public transit in hopes of containing the virus.

All that has left Johnson holed up in his apartment in China, where authorities have extended the Lunar New Year holiday break, which was due to end this week, well into February to reduce the virus's spread. That decision has left Johnson's school closed for the rest of the month.

He has decided to stay put and is unlikely to return home anytime soon. Multiple airlines have halted or curtailed China flights.

“I saw that U.S. citizens coming to America from China had to spend two weeks in quarantine anyway, so I’d be doing the same thing, hanging out and watching movies,” he said.

One woman and her 8-year-old daughter with Kentucky ties living in Wuhan were among those evacuated by a U.S. chartered flight last week, WLEX-TV reported. The woman filmed her trip to the airport, which showed eerily empty streets.

Related: There aren't any coronavirus cases in Kentucky, but fear is spreading

Kentucky native Kyle Johnson's apartment outside of Shanghai, where workers take residents' temperatures each day. (Photo: Courtesy of Kyle Johnson)

In Kentucky, the virus has upended travel plans for employees of businesses such as Papa John's International and led universities to cancel travel to China study programs. They have urged students to adhere to U.S. State Department warnings against traveling to China.

The University of Kentucky, which had one staffer stuck in the quarantine zone in China while visiting for a funeral, hosts more than 500 Chinese students on campus. Many are worried about family, rescheduling trips and unsure when they can return, officials said.

"They’re all in contact with families" on social media, said Huajing Maske, executive director of UK's Confucius Institute and director of the Office of China Initiatives.

Zhizhi Wang, 25, a graduate finance student, said his family is hunkered down in Yueyang, about a 30-minute train ride from Wuhan. From Lexington, he’s been in touch daily on WeChat.

“When the Wuhan government issued a city lockdown, 10,000 people fled the city and camped in my hometown. That’s when we freaked out,” he said. “I told my family, just don’t go out. You never know who you’re going to bump into.”

Cases have grown in the last week. “It’s pretty scary," he said.

See also: Kentucky colleges suspend travel to China amid coronavirus outbreak

City officials have been calling to check on each house every other day and told families to send one person to buy groceries. Some residents are afraid to visit those in hospitals and New Year’s celebrations are taking place on social media video, not in person.

The New York Times reported Thursday that Wuhan officials had been ordered to round up all residents who have been infected with the coronavirus and place them in isolation, quarantine or designated hospitals.

In Kentucky, Wang has seen reported instances on Chinese American community social media chats of schoolkids being subject to phrases such as "Chinese virus, stay away!” he said, with many feeling that referring to it a “Chinese virus” was discriminatory.

Chang Zheng Wang, of Lexington, past president of the Kentucky Chinese American Association, said his relatives "are still safe, they’re just stuck in the house every day. All the trains, buses, public transport is stopped, people can’t go anywhere. One of my nieces works in a hospital, and they’re seeing a lot of (coronavirus) patients."

Central China's Hubei province has added thousands of beds by building two new hospitals and creating quarantine centers.

The province has been in virtual lockdown, and international news has shown quiet, empty streets and residents staying distracted with television and food delivery.

CNN reported that social media videos show people coming up with all kinds of activities to kill time, including playing pingpong on dinner tables.

Mythbusters: Are your packages from China safe amid the coronavirus outbreak?

Support local journalism Support stories like this one by becoming a subscriber today! Support stories like this one by becoming a subscriber today! Get unlimited digital access here!

Far to the east, Johnson, who teaches at Kang Chiao International School, where students prepare to study at colleges in the U.S., has been largely stuck inside the apartment building he shares with other foreign teachers. Many had left for the break and have delayed their return.

Government workers came to his door to ask about his travel history, he said. And while public transportation has been shut down in some areas, buses still run where he lives.

Across China and beyond, fears of infection have spread with the virus. In Hong Kong, hit hard in 2002 by SARS, a highly contagious respiratory illness, thousands of hospital workers went on strike earlier to demand complete closure of the border. Other countries are continuing evacuations and restricting the entry of Chinese or people who have recently traveled in the country.

The new virus's mortality rate is about 2%, lower than SARS, which has a mortality rate of about 10%.

Sylvie Birand, director of global infections hazard preparedness at the World Health Organization, has told USA TODAY it was "very early" in the outbreak. She declined to describe the situation as a pandemic, saying the outbreak remained mostly contained in China.

Johnson said one friend refers to it as a “panic-demic."

He said people should remember that news reports often focus on the hardest-hit areas and response efforts, which have fueled concern from some friends and family in Kentucky. He said he doesn't believe he'll come in contact with the virus.

"People are calling. ... 'Oh my God, three hundred people died," he said. While reading about it from afar may make it seem like "something out of a zombie movie," he said, at least in his area, "it’s not as scary being here as it looks."

Read this: Yum China says coronavirus has closed stores and 'impacted' operations

Reporter Chris Kenning can be reached at ckenning@gannett.com or 502-396-3361 or on Twitter @chris_kenning.

Read or Share this story: https://www.courier-journal.com/story/news/local/2020/02/05/coronavirus-2020-kentucky-teacher-stays-china-amid-virus-outbreak/4658127002/