By Gordon Duff and New Eastern Outlook, Moscow (established 1816)

Information has come to light that indicts the United States not just for the Soleimani killing but also for the over 300 killings during the Iraqi protests in late 2019.

In fact, it can be proven that the United States not only organized the protests but also is responsible for killing protestors as well, hundreds of them, something we have seen before, Maidan in 2014, Libya in 2011 and Cairo in 2009.

In each event, the killings of protestors lead to regime change favorable to the US. Though evidence of false flag snipers in Maidan is overwhelming, this is the first real “smoking gun” that clearly establishes the US military as a terrorist organization.

We begin our story.

The Soleimani murder, at the hands of Pompeo, Esper, and Trump, was much more than the simple hubris and ignorance most assume.

It is also assumed, quite wrongly, that the US occupation of the oil and opium rich lands of Asia is driven by national interest, at least to a part, perhaps even a small part. That is false also, patently false.

The backstory behind the killing of Soleimani is rooted in the explosive riots and the mysterious murders that pushed Iraqi Prime Minister Mahdi to resign on November 30, 2019.

Mahdi had been in office a year and had been, for the first time, addressing Iraq’s massive corruption, an endemic problem with any nation that has the misfortune of being occupied by the United States.

Iraq has a Shiite majority that has slowly assumed political dominance after years of suppression under Saddam Hussein.

In fact, it was Iranian General Soleimani who came to Iraq in 2003 to organize the Shiite militias, the current PMU, now part of Iraq’s Army, to fight alongside American forces that were overthrowing Sunni Baathist rule.

Trump claims he had Suleimani murdered for his part in the killing of Americans during this period, when in fact Suleimani was closely allied to the US, at least until the US decided to begin a war with Iran in 2007. However, this is another story for another time, one also wrought with deception and double-dealing.

Critical to understanding events is understanding America’s real role in Iraq. To do that, it is necessary to understand why Iraq’s parliament voted unanimously to oust American troops.

The story behind this is much more than the death of Suleimani, far more, and has been suppressed. That story involves a broader geopolitical narrative that transpired when Iraq under Mahdi tried to remove America’s heel from its neck.

Italian journalist Federico Pieraccini investigated the story behind Mahdi’s address to parliament, the recorded portion of which in no way answered any real questions about why Iraq would make such a drastic move as to expel American troops, ending the billion-dollar a year payoff scheme that fed so many Sunni politicians.

Pieraccini tells us this:

“[Speaker of the Council of Representatives of Iraq] Halbousi attended the parliamentary session while almost none of the Sunni members did. This was because the Americans had learned that Abdul-Mehdi was planning to reveal sensitive secrets in the session and sent Halbousi to prevent this.

Halbousi cut Abdul-Mehdi off at the commencement of his speech and then asked for the live airing of the session to be stopped. After this, Halbousi together with other members, sat next to Abdul-Mehdi, speaking openly with him but without it being recorded.

This is what was discussed in that session that was not broadcast:

Abdul-Mehdi spoke angrily about how the Americans had ruined the country and now refused to complete infrastructure and electricity grid projects unless they were promised 50% of oil revenues, which Abdul-Mehdi refused.”

That deal with China was the result of Mahdi’s abandoning any attempt to work with the United States after years of seeing his nation bled dry.

It is no secret that the United States had little or no role in fighting ISIS and, were one to ask the Shia majority of Iraqi citizens, most would insist that the US brought ISIS to Iraq with Saudi help.

In meetings with Sunni leaders, held in Baghdad in January 2014, exactly what was explained to me, how ISIS was to offset Shia influence and guarantee Iraq would remain under US-Saudi control.

The Sunni leaders, who controlled key military commands and provincial governorships, planned to simply turn affairs over to ISIS and, in fact, did so despite my warnings.

Months later, several I met with had been beheaded by ISIS. “What goes around comes around.”

As to Mahdi’s deal with China, that as we will see, precipitated the American staged coup, the following from the Middle East Institute:

“Upon arriving in Beijing on September 19 at the head of a 55-member delegation, Iraq Prime Minister Adel Abdul-Mahdi described the visit to China as heralding a “quantum leap” in bilateral relations. The five-day visit culminated in the signing of eight wide-ranging memoranda of understanding (MoUs), a framework credit agreement, and the announcement of plans for Iraq to join China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Since then, however, a wave of angry anti-government protests have swept across much of Iraq, leaving more than 100 dead and thousands wounded — a vivid reminder of the country’s ongoing struggle for stability and of the obstacles to the further consolidation of China-Iraq relations.”

These anti-government protests are attributed to threats made by Donald Trump, as we will see in the full text of Mahdi’s address to parliament, below. The rationale is simple, the China deal was Iraq’s best effort to address unemployment and economic inequality, why would someone want to sabotage it?

More on Mahdi’s leadership below, again from the Middle East Institute:

“Since early 2018, the central government of Iraq has been working assiduously to capitalize on the territorial defeat of Da’esh, which three years earlier had overrun and controlled nearly one-third of the country. A working relationship between the GOI and the semi-autonomous Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) has been reestablished. After repeated delays due to a series of security incidents the newly constructed Qaim border crossing with Syria has reopened. Planning for the construction of a new crude oil pipeline from Kirkuk to Turkey is underway.

Yet, although Iraq has entered a period of relative calm, the country faces a multitude of challenges. The security situation in the country is fragile. According to a recent report by the Pentagon, Da’esh has “solidified its insurgent capabilities in Iraq.” Meanwhile, the GOI is struggling to maintain a delicate balance in its relations with key allies US / Saudi Arabia and Iran, as well as to avoid becoming another front in an escalating Iran-Israel proxy war. On July 1, Prime Minister Adel Abdul-Mahdi issued a decree ordering the integration of all Iraqi militias, including the Popular Mobilization Units (PMU).”

Only with a broader context of events, with an understandable timeline, can we adequately assess Trump’s blunder here.

But also, we can only asses the nature of Trump’s methods through an unedited translation of the nature of the critical exchange between Trump and Mahdi that led to Soleimani’s murder.

Finally, the complete address by Abdul Mahdi has been made available, which now fills the gaps the West has allowed to support the limited narrative fed to congress.

“This is why I visited China and signed an important agreement with them to undertake the construction instead. Upon my return, Trump called me to ask me to reject this agreement. When I refused, he threatened to unleash huge demonstrations against me that would end my premiership.

Huge demonstrations against me duly materialized and Trump called again to threaten that if I did not comply with his demands, then he would have Marine snipers on tall buildings target protesters and security personnel alike in order to pressure me.

I refused again and handed in my resignation. To this day the Americans insist on us rescinding our deal with the Chinese.

After this, when our Minister of Defense publicly stated that a third party was targeting both protestors and security personnel alike (just as Trump had threatened, he would do), I received a new call from Trump threatening to kill both me and the Minister of Defense if we kept on talking about this “third party”.

I was supposed to meet him [Soleimani] later in the morning when he was killed. He came to deliver a message from Iran in response to the message we had delivered to the Iranians from the Saudis.

The Kingdom’s statement regarding the events in Iraq stresses the Kingdom’s view of the importance of de-escalation to save the countries of the region and their people from the risks of any escalation.

The kingdom of Saudi Arabia was not consulted regarding the US strike. In light of the rapid developments, the Kingdom stresses the importance of exercising restraint to guard against all acts that may lead to escalation, with severe consequences.

Saudi Arabia is sending a delegation to Washington to urge restraint with Iran on behalf of [Persian] Gulf states. The message will be: ‘Please spare us the pain of going through another war’.”

It is also clear that Trump’s hubris in his wild threats against Iraq and his willingness to murder the foremost military leader in the war on terror is based on what American author and former CIA officer Robert David Steele calls the “Cult of West Point Class of 1986” and Politico calls the “West Point Mafia.”

Steele postulates that this single class, a collection of “bad apples” as it were, has pushed Trump toward one failed endeavor after another. From Stratfor:

“Since graduating from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1986, the careers of Mike Pompeo, Ulrich Brechbuhl, Brian Bulatao, Mark Esper, David Urban and Mark Green have periodically intersected. Now they have converged in the Trump administration.”

These are the geniuses that told Trump Iran had only old Soviet “scud” type missiles, with liquid fuel, no guidance, and poor reliability. Of course, none have actual military experience other than as “place holders” and “seat warmers.”

Then the surprise came, Iran’s missiles rained down on al Asad Air Base, easily pushing past America’s Patriot missile defense system, “0” hit. Worse still, the highly advanced solid-fuel missiles from Iran hit within not yards but within 10 feet of targets, actually much closer than that.

Similarly, when missiles plowed into the “consular” facilities, really weapons warehouses, at Erbil International Airport, in the Kurdish region of Northern Iraq, the US denied any hits claiming to have shot down two of three missiles and the other a “wide miss.”

Then, as is so often the case, American military personnel billeted in the apartment buildings just south of the facility uploaded their video to YouTube.

Three missiles thee direct hits, dramatic explosions, which the Americans seemed to enjoy immensely.

We now enter a new world, not just one with America “schooled” but with America’s actual role exposed, occupier, terrorist, and thief.

Biography



Biography Gordon Duff, Senior Editor Senior Editor , VT



Duff has traveled extensively, is published around the world and is a regular guest on TV and radio in more than “several” countries. He is also a trained chef, wine enthusiast, avid motorcyclist and gunsmith specializing in historical weapons and restoration. Business experience and interests are in energy and defense technology.



Gordon’s Archives – 2008-2014 Gordon Duff is a Marine combat veteran of the Vietnam War. He is a disabled veteran and has worked on veterans and POW issues for decades. Gordon is an accredited diplomat and is generally accepted as one of the top global intelligence specialists. He manages the world’s largest private intelligence organization and regularly consults with governments challenged by security issues.Duff has traveled extensively, is published around the world and is a regular guest on TV and radio in more than “several” countries. He is also a trained chef, wine enthusiast, avid motorcyclist and gunsmith specializing in historical weapons and restoration. Business experience and interests are in energy and defense technology.