At January’s end, Canada’s Ambassador to China — some 11,000 kms from his post in Beijing, as measured by the Globe & Mail — was at a boutique law office in Manhattan, giving a deposition in a case to determine whether the firm he ran for nine years had violated U.S. bankruptcy laws.

It’s a complicated affair that put Dominic Barton in New York, as are most lawsuits between financial behemoths.

Barton, Canada’s envoy to Beijing since September, found himself giving his story in a legal battle between McKinsey and Co., the world’s largest management consulting firm, and Jay Alix, the billionaire founder of AlixPartners, a firm that specializes in bankruptcy turnarounds.

Barton was global director for McKinsey between 2009 and 2018, during a time which Alix alleged in court that the McKinsey firm improperly concealed potential conflicts when it sought court approval to advise companies dealing with bankruptcy.

McKinsey, of course, has some big names on its legal team, including John Gleeson, a former judge and U.S. attorney known for prosecuting bigtime Mafioso cases like Gambino family boss John Gotti, NYC’s Teflon Don who died in prison of cancer in 2002 at the age of 61.

Last week, however, Barton was on Parliament Hill for a two-hour meeting with MPs on the Special Committee on Canada-China Relations to hash out Canada’s icy relationship with China’s communist regime of Xi Jinping.

“The chill is real,” said Barton.

Barton, who had up-close business dealings with scores of Chinese companies beginning when he was based in Shanghai from 2004 to 2009 as McKinsey’s chairman for Asia, has a long list of priorities in dealing with China.

Before he headed back to Beijing, however, Barton took some grief for mistakenly telling MPs that Huseyin Celil, a Uyghur-Canadian who has been imprisoned in China for 15 years, is not a citizen of this country.

Canada’s last ambassador, of course, was former Liberal cabinet John McCallum who screwed up royally by twice speaking publicly on the legal case of Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou, the epicentre for today’s icy China-Canada relationship after she was arrested at the behest of the United Sates for potential extradition for allegedly playing too loose with U.S. sanctions against the mad mullahs of Iran.

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was not about to give the stumblebum McCallum a third strike, and relieved him of his duties.

But Barton sure has his work cut out.

Shortly after Meng’s arrest, two innocent Canadians in China — Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor — were tossed in jail as retaliation, with China bogusly accusing Kovrig of stealing state secrets that they claim had been passed onto him by Spavor.

Barton’s job is to get them released.

Another Canadian, rarely discussed, is Robert Schellenberg, who was sentenced to death in a quickie retrial after originally being sentenced to 15 years for running a methamphetamine smuggling operation.

Barton’s job is to get his death sentence commuted.

He told the special committee that Trudeau presented him with three priorities and one caveat.

“First and foremost, secure the release of Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor and get clemency for Robert Schellenberg. That is core. That’s a priority,” said Barton.

“Second, promote and protect human rights.”

The third priority, Barton explained, was to warm person-to-person relationship between the Chinese and Canadian people at all levels.

The caveat? Doing it all above board, and following the “international rules and principles that provide predictability and security.”

These are all tall orders, but thankfully they’re not in the hands of the loose-lipped John McCallum.

McCallum would take a swing, of course, but he’d miss.

And that would be strike three.

markbonokoski@gmail.com