Arisina Ma says there was no consensus on industrial action by public doctors.

The Hong Kong Public Doctors' Association's president said the group will not take part or support a planned strike that is aimed to press the government to do more in light of the Wuhan virus scare, RTHK reports.

Some Hospital Authority workers are planning a strike on February 3 to force the authorities to ban travelers coming through all mainland borders and provide better protective gear for medical workers.

But Arisina Ma said her association could not reach a consensus on the industrial action.

"Personally I think it's a very difficult decision and also a very painful decision," she told RTHK's Candice Wong.

"Because we represent both senior and frontline doctors, our association cannot make a conclusion or a sentiment about joining the strike or not."

She added that a lot of doctors have reservations about the idea because of their important role in daily clinical care, despite being discouraged by government actions so far in containing the new coronavirus.

Ma said her colleagues are fearing for their lives that they could be infected by the deadly coronavirus.

She pointed out that some medical staff are upset at the attitude of the government in handling the crisis.

"Some of our colleagues and some of our citizens really think that our government seems to... most of the policy leans to the mainland government, seems our government lost their independence," she said.

She added that some medical workers felt that the management does not act promptly or considerately.

She also noted that some demands made by healthcare workers are out of the power of the Hospital Authority.

She said she hopes the government can take more aggressive measures to control the border and incoming sick travellers to contain the epidemic.

"I hope that the Food and Health Bureau or the central government, please listen to not just the healthcare workers, actually this is the sentiment of the whole city, of most of the Hong Kong people," she said.