Virus scares off investors

But even as he spoke, US stocks were heading lower as investors worried about the spread of a mysterious respiratory virus that originated in Wuhan, the capital of China's Hubei province.

On Tuesday, US health officials confirmed the first US case of coronavirus, the pneumonia-like virus that has already killed nine people in China and sickened hundreds more.

The latest outbreak has spooked investors, who still have memories of the SARS virus of 2002-03, which also emerged from China and killed 800 people after officials initially attempted to cover up its impact.

They're worried that the mysterious respiratory infection has broken out just as hundreds of millions of Chinese prepare to travel across the country to celebrate the lunar new year.

Should the outbreak develop into a pandemic similar to SARS, global economic growth would be affected.

"We've got a curveball with this coronavirus, I think that's a big deal." billionaire hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones told CNBC.

Advertisement

"If you look at what happened in 2003, estimates ranged 0.5 per cent to 2 per cent in GDP for China, half a per cent for south-east Asia. Stockmarkets sold off double digits. If you look at the escalation of the reported cases [of coronavirus], it feels a lot like that."

Small rebound

A steep slowdown in Chinese economic activity would play havoc with the International Monetary Fund's latest forecast for a modest rebound in global growth this year.

In its latest World Economic Outlook, released in Davos this week, the IMF predicted global GDP would grow by 3.3 per cent in 2020, up from 2.9 per cent last year, largely as a result of aggressive monetary policy stimulus, and the truce in America's nearly two-year trade war with China.

The IMF upgraded its forecast for Chinese growth to 6 per cent in 2020 - from its previous forecast of 5.8 per cent - to reflect the benefit of its phase one trade deal with the US.

But it warned "unresolved disputes on broader US-China economic relations as well as needed domestic financial regulatory strengthening are expected to continue weighing on activity".

Last week, China reported economic growth of 6.1 per cent in 2019, which came within the government's target range of 6 to 6.5 per cent, but the lowest level in nearly three decades.

Advertisement

Reliant on investment

Beijing is expected to set an economic growth target of around 6 per cent in 2020, relying on a lift in infrastructure spending by local governments to underpin activity.

But this is a dangerous policy that risks leaving Chinese local governments saddled with an even greater debt burden, which some analysts estimate could be as high as $US10 trillion ($14.6 trillion).

China has long relied on an investment-driven growth strategy, which depends heavily on debt to drive growth.

Local governments in particular sold vast amounts of land to developers and then borrowed heavily to fund the construction of massive infrastructure projects, such as roads and airports, counting on rapid economic growth to repay their borrowings.

But many of these projects turned out to be white elephants, incapable of generating anywhere near the revenues needed to service their debts.

A further problem is that China's small- to medium-sized banks played a major role in funding these often overly ambitious infrastructure projects. And for years regulators, who were keen to keep credit flowing to regional areas that were often ignored by the major national banks, turned a blind eye to the risks these smaller lenders were running.

Advertisement

So rapid was the loan growth of these small- and medium-sized lenders that they now account for nearly half of total bank loans in China.

Lack of transparency

As China's economy weakens, however, the shoddy lending practices of the past are now being revealed. As swaths of smaller lenders have experienced a sharp rise in their problem loans, Beijing has had little choice but to intervene.

In the past eight months, Beijing has been forced to come to the rescue of at least six regional banks.

Last May, Chinese regulators seized a bank, Baoshang Bank, for the first time in two decades. But this bailout triggered a funding crisis for other small banks, and Beijing had to flood the financial system with cash to prevent contagion.

The lack of transparency in China's banking system makes it impossible to know how bad the problems are for regional lenders, but analysts believe the clean-up will require hundreds of billions of dollars in bailouts at the very least.

"In the past few years, some banks have expanded blindly," the head of the People's Bank of China, Yi Gang, acknowledged in September.

Fears of collapse

Advertisement

But as it tries to clean up its financial system, Beijing is facing a delicate balancing act: continuing its clamp-down on shoddy lending practices without starving the economy of credit.

There's little doubt that slowing lending has contributed to the country's faltering growth, as difficulties faced by small- and medium-sized lenders reverberate through the economy.

Meanwhile, Beijing has to find a way to stop fears of bank bailouts from rippling through the entire financial system.

Already, rumours on social media about the imminent collapse have resulted in runs on banks.

Last November, more than 100 police officers were sent to control crowds of depositors who lined up to withdraw their money from the north-east Chinese bank, Yingkou Coastal Bank.