City of Laredo issues notice clarifying no coronavirus in Laredo after rumors spread on social media

Men wear protective masks and check their phones while waiting for the bus on a nearly empty street on Feb. 7, 2020 in Beijing. The new coronavirus identified in China has spread rapidly since its emergence at the beginning of 2020. Read through to follow the progress of the outbreak response. less Men wear protective masks and check their phones while waiting for the bus on a nearly empty street on Feb. 7, 2020 in Beijing. The new coronavirus identified in China has spread rapidly since its emergence at ... more Photo: Kevin Frayer, Getty Photo: Kevin Frayer, Getty Image 1 of / 38 Caption Close City of Laredo issues notice clarifying no coronavirus in Laredo after rumors spread on social media 1 / 38 Back to Gallery

The City of Laredo Health department has issued a notice informing the Laredo community that despite rumors spreading throughout social media, there are no cases of the coronavirus currently in Laredo or any suspected cases in Texas.

READ MORE: What travelers need to know about the coronavirus

"The City of Laredo Health Department wants the public to know that we continue to monitor the corona virus illness," Health Director Hector Gonzalez said in a release. "While there are no cases in Texas or Laredo nor suspected ones, we do have constant travel and have worked with the medical, business and school communities to provide guidelines on CV and travel."

According to the release, over 9,000 cases have been confirmed throughout the world, with a majority occurring in China. 213 deaths have been reported, with all of them coming in China, mostly in persons aged over 65. Of the six U.S. cases confirmed thus far, five have been from locals who had recently travelled to Wuhan City, Hubei Province, with one coming via person-to-person transmission.

Two cases were suspected in Texas, affecting two students at Baylor University and Texas A&M University who had both travelled to China. However, both cases were cleared after test results returned negative for the coronavirus.

The Novel 2019-nCoV Coronavirus (CV) causes a cold-like illness that can develop into a lower respiratory infection causing pneumonia. The symptoms, which can appear within 2 to 14 days of exposure, include a fever, cough and shortness of breath. Those infected with CV may also exhibit lower respiratory symptoms such as bronchitis or pneumonia.

"If you have not been around anyone with nCoV or have not visited an ongoing nCoV outbreak area, you are not at risk." Gonzalez said.

The social media rumors began spreading when former Webb County Judge Louis H. Bruni posted about CV on his Facebook account Friday morning. The all caps post has garnered over 1,000 shares as of Friday afternoon.

"LAREDO OFFICIALS; FIRST CASE OF CORONA VIRUS CONFIRMED IN WEBB COUNTY AREA" Bruni posted.

According to a KGNS report, the former judge received the information from a source he considered credible, and relayed it via Facebook.

While Laredo shouldn't worry about the coronavirus just yet, the Laredo Health Department did want to notify citizens to be aware about Flu season. According to the release, over 2,000 cases of the Flu have been confirmed locally since September 2019. As a result of the flu infection, several adult deaths and one pediatric death have been reported in Laredo.

READ MORE: Photos show what goes in Laredo's dirtiest kitchens during December health inspections

The Health Department reminds locals to follow general respiratory precautions to prevent spread of infection, including not touching their mouth, eyes and nose without washing their hands, covering their mouths when coughing & sneezing and washing their hands. The city also advises all locals, regardless of previous illness, to get vaccinated against the flu.