A Belgian national and his Filipino wife who came from Wuhan, China are now in isolation at the Negros Oriental Provincial Hospital (NOPH) in Dumaguete City after the man exhibited flu-like symptoms such as cough and sore throat upon arriving in the province. This brings to 11 the total number of persons under investigation (PUIs) in relation to the 2019 novel coronavirus acute respiratory disease or Covid-2019, but the nine have already been discharged. All nine had tested negative of the Covid-2019, based on results from the Research Institute for Tropical Medicine (RITM). Negros Oriental spokesperson Bimbo Miraflor said Monday that the couple arrived in Dumaguete on Sunday from Siquijor. He said that, based on the couple's timeline of travel, they had earlier left Wuhan for Taiwan and arrived in Manila on January 31. The following day, they flew to Bohol where they stayed for nine days. On Feb. 10, they took a boat from Bohol to Siquijor and stayed there for five days before proceeding to Dumaguete on Sunday. Miraflor said the hotel where the couple had checked in reported to the authorities that the man was coughing and complaining of sore throat. The Provincial Health Office immediately sent a team to pick the couple up and placed them under quarantine at the NOPH while nasopharyngeal specimens were taken for testing at the RITM, Miraflor said. While the 14-day quarantine period for the couple had already lapsed on Jan. 31, granting they were cleared by authorities at the other destinations they had visited, Miraflor said that according to the Department of Health, it is better for them to undergo quarantine and providedwith medical attention. Miraflor said they find it unusual for the couple to have come to the Philippines when a travel ban from Wuhan, China has been in effect since the outbreak of the novel disease that has killed more than 1,000 people, mostly Chinese, and infected thousands more. He said he hopes that the provinces of Bohol and Siquijor are also monitoring travelers, especially those coming from China and other countries covered by the travel ban to prevent the spread of the Covid-2019 here. Negros Oriental Governor Roel Degamo has issued an executive order requiring these travelers to undergo a 14-day self-quarantine and to be placed in isolation at the NOPH if they manifest flu-like symptoms. *PNA *** In Negros Occidental, Gov. Eugenio Jose Lacson said yesterday that while the province nolonger has PUIs in hospitals, people should remain alert against the deadly COVID-19. Lacson said the COVID-19 awareness level should remain because he was informed that some people who have travelled abroad have not reported where they had been because they do not want to be quarantined. He stressed the need for health and barangay officials in the barangays to be on alert for such persons. Even if they are not showing COVID 19 symptoms, they should still be subjected to monitoring, Lacson said.* back to top