The video will start in 8 Cancel

Sign up to FREE email alerts from Daily Star - Daily News Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A newborn baby found to have coronavirus just 30 hours after being born is feared to have been infected by its mum in the womb.

Doctors at the Wuhan Children’s Hospital have said they believe the virus could have passed on in utero, reports Chinese state broadcaster CCTV.

The patient gave birth on Sunday, and doctors discovered the tot was confirmed to have the virus.

Reported the baby is short of breath, but luckily has no fever and is reported to be stable.

Wuhan hospital chief Zeng Lingkong said: “This reminds us that we need to pay attention to the possibility of a new way of transmission of pneumonia infected by the new coronavirus – vertical transmission from mother to child.”

The city remains the epicentre of the outbreak, and has been on lockdown for two weeks and try attempts to control the spread of coronavirus.

More than 20,000 people are no infected, and the death toll is nearing 500 worldwide.

World Health Organisation bosses have said there is now a “window of opportunity” to stop coronavirus.

Director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesu praised China’s efforts and said they took the fight to the virus in Wuhan.

It comes however amid ongoing questions as to if the Communist Party is downplaying the impact of coronavirus.

Dr Tedros said: “There is a window of opportunity because of the high measures, the strong measures China is taking at the epicentre, at the source.

“So let's use this opportunity to prevent further spread and control it.”

(Image: Barcroft Media via Getty Images)

Meanwhile, China’s top leadership admitted “shortcomings” in its handling of the crisis.

And rumours persist that the death toll is higher than admitted, especially in the ravaged city of Wuhan.

One doctor who tired to warn his colleagues late last year was warned by police to stop “illegal activity”.

Chinese authorities have also threatened anyone who spreads “unofficial” information they may face prison.

Coronavirus is similar to SARS, but it is believed to incubate symptomless for two weeks and is still infectious.

(Image: Getty Images)

It causes a fever and dry cough which can prove fatal, especially in older people and children.

Wuhan insiders have claimed crematoriums are working 24/7 to burn bodies.

If true, it would suggest the death toll in the city is much higher than what has been claimed by the Communist Party.

Disturbing videos and claims continue to emerge from Wuhan which appear to suggest a city under siege by the virus.

WHO however have not yet declared the virus a “pandemic” as cases continue to creep across the globe.

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)

Elsewhere, more than 3,700 people are quarantined about the Diamond Princess anchored off Japan.

Meanwhile, health secretary Matt Hancock has said the Government is "taking no chances" with British citizens at risk of coronavirus.

On Tuesday, the Foreign Office urged all British nationals to leave China after the outbreak continued to claim lives.

Speaking on BBC Breakfast on Wednesday morning, Mr Hancock said the advice was a "science-led approach" based on the severity of the virus and its impact in China.

(Image: Barcroft Media via Getty Images)

Asked how logistically Britons are expected to return to the UK, he told BBC Breakfast: "There are still commercial flights available.

"The principle that we are taking is that we want to take no chances with this virus.

"We want to take a science-led approach.

"The approach we have been taking is very much driven by the advice of the chief medical officer.

"This is a very serious virus and having a very serious impact in China.

"There are two cases only here in the UK but we do expect more, so we are taking no chances."

On Tuesday evening, eight British nationals and their dependants left the virus-hit city of Wuhan on a flight to Auckland, New Zealand.