Friends of a Biloela Tamil family detained on Christmas Island want federal government assurance they won't be put in danger by coronavirus evacuees.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced a plan on Wednesday to evacuate Australians trapped at the epicentre of China's deadly virus and quarantine them on the remote island for 14 days.

Sri Lankan couple Priya and Nades Murugappan, and their Australian-born daughters Kopika and Tharunicaa have been in detention on the island since mid-2019.

Angela Fredericks says the prime minister must give the family a promise they won't be exposed to the danger.

Sri Lankan couple Priya and Nades Murugappan, and their Australian-born daughters Kopika and Tharunicaa have been in detention on the island since mid-2019

Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced a plan on Wednesday to evacuate Australians trapped at the epicentre of China's deadly virus and quarantine them on the remote island (pictured) for 14 days

'This is confirmation that this is a place we use to isolate Australians, and that's exactly what they are doing to this family,' Ms Fredericks told AAP.

'We want an assurance that they will not be put at risk, and even more so let's bring the family back home ... there is a whole town here waiting for them.'

Ms Fredericks will visit the family next month to give support during their next legal bid to stay in Australia.

Kopika and her younger sister Tharunicaa were born in Biloela in central Queensland, however the government has rejected claims for refugee status made on behalf of Kopika and her parents.

They fear persecution if they are deported because of links to the banned militant group known as the Tamil Tigers.

Their case, which will focus on a visa for Tharunicaa, will be heard in the Federal Court in late February.

Australians trapped in China will soon be evacuated following the deadly coronavirus outbreak. Pictured: People wearing protective masks queue to take a taxi at the Beijing railway station

Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced on Wednesday the government is preparing a 'plan' to provide some assisted departures for vulnerable Australians stranded in Wuhan

Christmas Island will be used as a quarantine centre to house and treat people transported under the plan. They will be kept on the remote island for at least 14 days.

There are more than 600 Australian citizens in Hubei province, who have registered with consular officials.

Qantas has offered to help evacuate Australians trapped in Wuhan, which is the Hubei province's capital.

'I want to stress to all Australians is this is an issue we are dealing with constantly on the basis of the best advice that we have available,' Mr Morrison said.

'We will continue to take decisions to protect Australians, their safety, their well-being, whether here or whether they may be in a position of vulnerability overseas.'

Christmas Island (pictured) will be used as a quarantine centre to house and treat people transported under the plan. They will be kept on the remote island for at least 14 days

CORONAVIRUS CASES IN AUSTRALIA NEW SOUTH WALES: 4 Four people in NSW have been diagnosed with coronavirus, including three men and one woman. January 25 Three men aged 43, 53, and 35 who had recently travelled to China are confirmed to have contracted the disease.

Two flew in from Wuhan while the other arrived in Sydney from Shenzhen, south China.

They are being treated in isolation at Westmead Hospital and are in stable condition. January 27 A 21-year-old woman is identified as the fourth person to test positive for the illness in NSW.

The woman, a student at UNSW, flew into Sydney International Airport on flight MU749 on January 23 and presented to the emergency department 24 hours later after developing flu-like symptoms.

She is being treated in isolation at Westmead Hospital. VICTORIA: 4 January 25 A Chinese national aged in his 50s becomes the first confirmed case of the coronavirus in Australia.

The man flew to Melbourne on China Southern flight CZ321 from Wuhan via Guangzhou on January 19.

He is now in quarantined isolation at Monash Hospital in Clayton in Melbourne's east. January 29 A Victorian man in his 60s is diagnosed with the coronavirus.

He became unwell on January 23 - two days after returning from the Chinese city of Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak.

The man was confirmed as positive on January 29 and was subsequently seen by doctors at the Monash Medical Centre. He was assessed as being well enough to stay at home. January 30 A woman in her 40s falls ill with the coronavirus.

She was visiting from China and mostly spent time with her family.

She is being treated at Royal Melbourne Hospital. February 1 A Melbourne woman aged in her 20s is at home recovering. She returned from Wuhan on January 25 and fell ill two days later. She was not infectious on the flight, and has remained in isolation since being tested. QUEENSLAND: 2 January 29 Queensland confirms its first case after a 44-year-old Chinese national wass diagnosed with the virus.

He is being treated at Gold Coast University Hospital. January 30 A 42-year-old Chinese woman who was travelling in the same Wuhan tour group as the 44-year-old man tests positive. She is in Gold Coast University Hospital in stable condition. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 2 February 1 A Chinese couple were placed in isolation in a public hospital. The man and a woman both aged 60, were from Wuhan and visiting relatives in South Australia. SA Health said the pair isolated themselves at home when they developed symptoms and awaited the results of the coronavirus test. Australia has raised the travel alert level to 'do not travel' for the city of Wuhan - the epicentre of the outbreak - and for the entire Hubei province. Chief Medical Officer Brendan Murphy says unless people have contact with someone who is unwell and has come from that part of China, there is no need for current concern.

One-million face masks will also be delivered to GPs around the country in a bid to stop the spread of the virus.

'We'll be supporting the public and GPs through the allocation of up to 1 million masks for general practises,' Health Minister Greg Hunt said.

It is not yet known when the first lot of Australians will be evacuated by Qantas flights from China.

Wuhan, the 11-million-strong epicentre of the outbreak, was put into lock-down last Thursday, amid growing fears over the rapid spread of the deadly virus.

The death toll has passed 130 in China, while confirmed cases of infection in the Hubei province have jumped past 6,000.

Mr Hunt said the outbreak had the potential of becoming a 'pandemic' in Australia - where five cases have been confirmed and several more are expected to emerge.

Australians have been urged to reconsider any travel to China and not to visit Hubei Province under any circumstances as the country struggles to contain coronavirus.

Government website Smarttraveller updated its travel advice for China early on Wednesday morning.

'Due to the outbreak of novel coronavirus we now advise you 'reconsider your need to travel' to China overall and 'do not travel' to Hubei Province,' the Smarttraveller advice read.

'Chinese authorities have restricted travel for parts of the country and may extend these restrictions at short notice.

'Travellers may be quarantined, due to their health condition or previous location.'

A Canberra university student trapped in Wuhan says she hasn't been outside in more than a week to protect herself from the deadly virus.

Helen Chen (pictured) is a Canberra university student trapped in Wuhan. She hasn't been outside in a week

Symptoms of the virus include fever, cough, sore throat and shortness of breath

WHAT ARE THE SYMPTOMS OF THE CORONAVIRUS? Once someone has caught the virus it may take between two and 14 days for them to show any symptoms. If and when they do, typical signs include: a runny nose

a cough

sore throat

fever (high temperature) The vast majority of patients – at least 97 per cent, based on available data – will recover from these without any issues or medical help. In a small group of patients, who seem mainly to be the elderly or those with long-term illnesses, it can lead to pneumonia. Pneumonia is an infection in which the insides of the lungs swell up and fill with fluid. It makes it increasingly difficult to breathe and, if left untreated, can be fatal and suffocate people.

Helen Chen, a student at ANU, says she's worried and uncertain but has tried to keep herself busy with university assignments while trapped inside her Wuhan family home for one-week.

'The last time I went out was probably a week ago, I wore a mask, and most people were wearing masks,' she told Reuters.

'And when my parents went out this morning to do groceries they wore masks as well, I made sure they brought hand sanitisers and they wore gloves, just to be extra careful.'

Mother-of-two Jenny Zhu is also stuck in Wuhan and has begged the Australian government to bring her children home.

Ms Zhu and her Australian-born sons, Thomas, 9, and Andrew, 5, haven't been outdoors in seven days due to the outbreak.

'Last time they went out of the house was on the 20th. They only get some fresh air on the balcony every day,' she said.

She said the family just want to return home to Sydney and hopes the Australian government is considering the wellbeing of all the children involved.

'My youngest boy has asked every day when he can go to kindy because he's really looking forward to school,' Ms Zhu said.

More than 11-million people were left stranded and unable to travel in or out of Wuhan after China stepped up preventive measures to limit the spread of coronavirus.

The virus, which belongs to the same family as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), has spread to 17 countries.

No deaths have been reported outside of China so far.

Pictured: Medical staff with coronavirus patient in Wuhan, China