China's coronavirus outbreak has sent shockwaves across the world. Increasing death toll and infection rate have turned Chinese cities into ghost towns, after the government advised residents not to go out. Here are some images that show how Chinese cities seem abandoned and empty due to the spread of the disease.

1 /21 A police officer wears a mask as he walks in front of the Oriental Pearl Tower, as the country is hit by an outbreak of a new coronavirus, in Lujiazui financial district in Pudong, Shanghai, China. SHARE

2 /21 Wuhan bridges and roads are empty due coronavirus outbreaks. SHARE

3 /21 A woman walks in a deserted shopping street in Jiujiang, Jiangxi province, China. SHARE

4 /21 A man wearing a mask walks in Lujiazui financial district in Pudong, Shanghai. SHARE

5 /21 A mother and her son arrive from Hubei province at a checkpoint on the Jiujiang Yangtze River Bridge in Jiujiang, Jiangxi province, on January 31, 2020. SHARE

6 /21 A man wearing a protective mask walks along an empty street in Beijing. SHARE

7 /21 An empty street is seen in Beijing. China's struggle to contain the deadly coronavirus is deepening concerns about the impact on the world's number-two economy, as factories stay closed and millions of consumers remain holed up at home. SHARE

8 /21 Security personnel wearing face masks patrol Wangfujing street, as the country is hit by an outbreak of the new coronavirus, in Beijing. SHARE

Don't Miss 335 SHARES 108 SHARES 1.6 K SHARES 954 SHARES 5.4 K SHARES 109 SHARES

9 /21 Workers set up beds in an exhibition centre that was converted into a hospital in Wuhan. SHARE

10 /21 People wear face masks as they cycle in an empty street in Yunxi county. SHARE

11 /21 People wearing masks walk through an empty shopping area in Shanghai. SHARE

12 /21 People wearing face masks walk down a deserted street in Wuhan in central China's Hubei Province. Arek and Jenina Rataj were starting a new life in the Chinese industrial centre of Wuhan when a viral outbreak spread across the city of 11 million. SHARE

13 /21 A family wearing face masks walk along a normally busy pedestrian shopping street in Beijing. SHARE

14 /21 A man wearing a face mask walks through a Lunar New Year holiday display at a normally busy pedestrian shopping street in Beijing. SHARE

15 /21 A worker wears a face mask and carries cleaning material as she uses the escalator at a shopping mall, as the country is hit by an outbreak of the new coronavirus, in Beijing. SHARE

16 /21 A woman wearing a face mask takes selfies after snowfall outside the Forbidden City. SHARE

17 /21 Andrew and Lara drink at a bar, as the country is hit by an outbreak of a new coronavirus, in Shanghai, China. SHARE

18 /21 People walk through Jianguomen subway station, as the country is hit by an outbreak of the new coronavirus. SHARE

19 /21 Few people are seen in a busy shopping mall, as the country is hit by an outbreak of a new coronavirus in Lujiazui financial district in Pudong, Shanghai. SHARE

20 /21 People wearing face masks walk at a shopping mall in Beijing, SHARE