Representative image

BHUBANESWAR: A central team on Thursday visited different hospitals in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack to review Odisha's preparedness to check the spread of novel coronavirus that has claimed more than 500 lives in China and infected thousands. The team visited isolation wards and oversaw the arrangements made for suspected coronavirus patients.The three-member team visited SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack and Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar as well as the intervention centre at Biju Patnaik International Airport and reviewed the arrangements in place to fight the deadly disease. They also interacted with senior health officials and suggested some more steps in this regard."The arrangements made by the state government for the treatment, quarantine and surveillance of suspected novel coronavirus are satisfactory. They have followed all the guidelines so far. Moreover, we have suggested some new measures to deal with treatment and prevent the spread of coronavirus," said Dr Sikha Vardhan, member of the three-member central team.Official sources said as many as 36 people from China had reached Odisha since January 15. One patient with suspected coronavirus has been kept under observation in the isolation ward at SCB Medical College while another was discharged after test reports returned negative. Of the seven persons in Odisha whose blood and throat swab samples were sent for tests, six turned out to be negative while report on the other one is still awaited."The samples of the woman student from China's Wuhan University, who attended a wedding in Cuttack, and was kept in isolation after showing mild symptoms of flu, came out negative of coronavirus. The report of one person who is in isolation is awaited," said Dr CBK Mohanty, director of medical education and training (DMET).Baring those whose samples tested negative, others who returned from China have been kept under home surveillance and health department officials are in constant touch with them. "The central team members expressed satisfaction with the treatment and surveillance arrangements," Mohanty added.Meanwhile, the first case of swine flu was detected at SCB Medical College and Hospital. The patient is from Dhenkanal district . "The patient was tested positive for H1N1 and is undergoing treatment as per guidelines. It is a sporadic case of swine flu so there is nothing to panic," the DMET pointed out.