Sign up to FREE email alerts from BirminghamLive - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A woman has been savagely beaten in what is believed to be the Midlands' first case of coronavirus rage.

Trainee lawyer Meera Solanki was among a group targeted after her Chinese friend was told: "Take your f***ing coronavirus back home!"

Yesterday, a member of a Birmingham based Anglo-Chinese group said paranoia surrounding the disease has led to unease and confrontation.

West Midlands Police have launched an appeal to find the thug responsible for the shocking violence outside Birmingham's Ana Rocha Bar and Gallery, on Frederick Street, in the early hours of Sunday, February 9.

An ambulance was called to the scene.

Her Chinese friend Mandy Huang, 28, endured racial abuse, was dubbed "a dirty C****" and accused of carrying the virus. Miss Solanki who bravely attempted to protect her, was knocked unconscious in the incident and hospitalised.

To keep up-to-date with crime in your community, join our Facebook group here

(Image: Meera Solanki)

One witness told the Sunday Mercury: "What I saw was beyond despicable. A totally vicious assault."

Ms Solanki, from Solihull, was out with friends celebrating her 29th birthday including Miss Huang who was visiting from London - when she was attacked.

In an interview with Sunday Mercury, Miss Solanki said: “ I was having Birthday drinks with a group of of girls and guys including Chinese friends.

“There were a group of Asian men inside the venue - one of them kept coming up to me and harassing me. He seemed to have a problem with me being an Indian girl with a multi racial group of friends.

“We tried to ignore him, even when he tried to spit at one of my friends. Towards the end of the night - there was just the three of us girls left including my Chinese friend Mandy. The man came over again and was being aggressive so we left but he followed us. For some reason he got really angry with her. He started abusing her calling her a dirty chink. He said "take your f****** Corona virus and take it back home“

“I was shocked and angry so I shouted for him to stop and tried to push him away.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

"He punched me in the head, I hit the pavement and was knocked unconcious.

Miss Solanki, a trainee lawyer, spent six hours at Heartlands Hospital where she was treated with concussion. She was off work for a week.

She added: "I was so shocked and horrified by his aggressive behaviour and horrific words. As I lay unconscious he continued to threaten my friends and abuse them before walking away calmly with his group of friends who did nothing to stop him or help me.”

There are 400,000 Chinese people living in England and Wales. Reports of coronavirus violence has already surfaced in Newcastle, York and Manchester. This month's shocking attack is the first in our region. Leading members of the Second City's Chinese community fear it will not be the last.

A spokeswoman for Birmingham Chinese Society - set-up to foster relations between the city's Western and East Asian residents - said: "There has always been abuse. The virus has given some individuals a reason for that abuse."

A misunderstanding over why some members of the Chinese community wear masks has added to the tension.

She explained: "We wear masks to protect others from our coughs and sneezes. Some wear them as a protection against pollution. Some women wear them because they don't want to be seen without make-up. We do it to protect others, not ourselves."

Respected businesswoman Dorian Chan, one of the most powerful figures in Birmingham's Chinese quarter, said: "For a man to attack a girl for defending her Chinese friend from his racial abuse, what has this world come to?

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

"But I have heard of similar attacks based on people's shocking racism after the coronavirus outbreak. There is a a lot of ignorant people who now have an excuse to attack us.

“I know of a Chinese student at Birmingham University who was punched in the face in Harborne - just because he was wearing a mask. He had his jaw dislocated.

"I’ve heard of Chinese people being chucked off buses in Birmingham because other passengers are complaining and telling them to get off. And the bus drivers do not stop it happening.

"Thankfully, this attack has been reported to the police. And it's vital there is a proper investigation."

Ms Chan, who co-owns popular Chinatown restaurants Wing Wah and Caffe Chino, added: "The virus has given some people an excuse to attack us"

(Image: Graham Young / BirminghamLive)

James Wong, chairman of Birmingham's Southside Birmingham Improvement District and managing director of the Chung Ying Restaurant Group, told the Sunday Mercury: “In my experience, and that of my family, friends and colleagues, the vast majority of people have been very sympathetic to the situation in China and have been keen to show their support towards the Chinese community here in Birmingham.

"I believe the diversity of our city is one of the reasons that any racially motivated incidents have been relatively low compared to other parts of the UK.

“Of course, any racially motivated incident against an individual or community is entirely unacceptable and needs to be addressed. We are working across our community at all levels to keep all informed of the situation and ensure that we’re doing everything we can to offer support and guidance.

"Fundamentally, it is important that we maintain a sense of balance and proportion in terms of the impact here in Birmingham and the UK, that any media coverage of the coronavirus is reported in a responsible way that doesn’t allow the spread of misinformation. As a global community, we need to stand together and support each other.”

Last night, a manager at Ana Rocha Bar confirmed the attack had taken place outside his premises, but said he was unaware what sparked the violence.

The popular venue has CCTV of the incident.

A West Midlands Police spokeswoman said: "We're investigating after a woman was assaulted after another was racially abused in Frederick Street, Hockley, around 2am on Sunday February 9.

"A man made racist marks to one woman and after he was asked to stop he punched another female, in her 20s, in the face. She was temporarily knocked unconscious but escaped without serious injury.

"The attacker is described as Asian, 5ft 8ins tall, of large build and was wearing a flat cap and hoodie at the time.

"Anyone with information can contact us via Live Chat at west-midlands.police.uk between 8am and midnight or call 101 anytime. Quote crime reference number 20BW/39330Q/20."

West Midlands Ambulance Services said: “We were called at 2:03am on February 9 to reports of an assault at an address on Frederick Street. An off-duty paramedic was already at the scene with the patient. The woman didn’t want to be taken to accident and emergency, so our crews were stood down.”