In Wuhan, there were 198 cases. There were also five in Beijing, 14 in the southern province of Guangdong and two in Shanghai. Authorities also confirmed infection among 15 hospital staff in the city of Wuhan, where the virus originated.

One hospital worker in Wuhan told The Australian Financial Review by telephone that while the outbreak was being taken seriously it was under control. She said staff had been told they could not take leave over the Lunar New Year holiday, a time when many Chinese citizens travel to be with relatives.

With cases also being reported in Hong Kong, Japan, Thailand and South Korea, authorities in Australia have introduced health screening for flights arriving from Wuhan into Sydney.

The outbreak rattled financial markets ahead of the week-long Lunar New Year holiday. China’s currency fell nearly half a per cent and the Shanghai Composite Index was down 1.3 per cent.

China's leaders urged cooperation with the World Health Organisation and neighbouring countries to stop the spread of the virus. The virus can cause pneumonia, with the deaths so far confined to elderly patients.

The World Health Organisation called an emergency meeting on Wednesday.

China's National Health Commission on Monday confirmed the coronavirus could be transmitted by human to human contact.

Hundreds of millions of people in China travel home to see families for the annual Lunar New Year holiday, which starts this week. There are fears the virus will be transmitted among the hoards of people packed into train stations and airports.

Advertisement

The outbreak has raised fears of a repeat of the SARS-virus, another coronavirus, that killded hundreds of people in the early 2000s. China was accused of trying to cover up that outbreak at the time.

Zhong Nanshan, a scientist who heads a government panel dealing with the outbreak, said the spread of the virus, which produces pneumonia-like symptoms, would not lead to a repeat of the SARS epidemic.

"We identified the new coronavirus just two weeks after the outbreak was reported, and we have very good virus monitoring and quarantine measures," Mr Zhong said on local television.

"I believe the outbreak will not have the impact on society and the economy that SARS did 17 years ago."

This time, China’s leaders have called for decisive and open efforts to control the outbreak.

The country must strengthen measures in a targeted manner to curb the spread of the virus considering the large population mobility during the travel rush, Premier Li Keqiang said while chairing a State Council executive meeting.