Opinion

Commentary: Can America control the coronavirus?

Dr. Satish Pillai, a medical officer with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, speaks Wednesday, Jan. 22, 2020, during a news conference in Shoreline, Wash. Pillai and other officials spoke about the ongoing response after a man in Washington state traveled to China and contracted the 2019 coronavirus. There are multiple factors that may prevent America from controlling the virus unless they are addressed now. less Dr. Satish Pillai, a medical officer with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, speaks Wednesday, Jan. 22, 2020, during a news conference in Shoreline, Wash. Pillai and other officials spoke ... more Photo: Ted S. Warren /Associated Press Photo: Ted S. Warren /Associated Press Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close Commentary: Can America control the coronavirus? 1 / 1 Back to Gallery

Laws play a major role in fighting epidemics and outbreaks, such as the coronavirus that is now spreading worldwide.

Laws establish norms for healthy behavior, define the authority of public health agencies, and focus the debates that occur in legislatures, courts and administrative bodies. It is impossible to think clearly about fighting epidemics without framing issues in legal terms.

Using laws to fight epidemics is not new. During the plagues in London in the early 16th century, an array of legal provisions addressed threats to public health. Those laws established mandatory rules relating to sanitation, identification and segregation of infected houses or individuals; investigation of illnesses; medical treatment; reporting of deaths; disposal of tainted goods; and burial procedures.

The English laws probably were modeled after earlier legal provisions in France and Italy. Similar legal regimes have been replicated and improved in later centuries to deal with smallpox, tuberculosis and, more recently, HIV, AIDS, SARS and the Ebola virus.

In the early 20th century, American patients infected with polio were legally quarantined in their homes or sent to special treatment facilities. During the deadly 1918 influenza pandemic, New York required people to obtain passes to travel.

There will always be epidemics. Protecting public health necessitates the deployment of legal tools related to information gathering, vaccination, isolation, quarantine and treatment.

Epidemics raise a host of civil liberties issues because those who have, or are suspected of having, the disease may suffer stigma and social hostility. The legal problems range from defamation and invasion of privacy to employment and housing discrimination.

In the United States, various statutory provisions guarantee confidentiality for personal information relating to one’s health. Tort-law principles impose liability on those who cause harm by intentionally or negligently transmitting a communicable disease.

Laws can play an effective role in fighting epidemics only if legal provisions are grounded in sound scientific principles and accurate information about the spread of diseases.

In earlier times, a lack of medical knowledge and slow communication hampered efforts to combat epidemics.

Today, obstacles still exist. Three matters call into doubt the ability of America to respond effectively to the coronavirus. The first is what a recent cover story in National Geographic magazine called the “War on Science.” The second is the pollution of public discourse by the spread of misinformation. The third is the increasing hostility in many quarters to the plight of disadvantaged people.

In the United States, it has become common — and politically advantageous — for politicians to repudiate scientific principles that otherwise enjoy a strong consensus of professional support. Thus, leading figures cast doubt on the teachings of science related to climate change, childhood vaccination, hydraulic fracturing (fracking) and vaping.

America is committed to public debate — robust, wide-open and uninhibited — and to the concept of a marketplace of ideas. However, these paradigms are under great stress in the age of the internet. It is far from clear how to minimize abuses in public discourse while adhering to the traditional principles that underlie the American constitutional guarantees of free speech and free press.

Finally, the harsh response to the refugee crisis in the United States and abroad makes it fair to question whether the American legal system will adequately protect the civil rights of those who have, or may have, the coronavirus.

The American legal system has an important role to play in fighting the coronavirus and future epidemics. It remains to be seen whether it will be up to the task.

Vincent R. Johnson, J.D., is interim dean and Charles E. Cantú Distinguished Professor of Law at St. Mary’s University.