The death toll in the coronavirus outbreak has now reached 1,016 as 103 people died on Monday alone - a daily record.

The number of new infections in China, however, was down by a fifth from the day before from 3,061 to 2,478.

Globally, there have been 42,638 cases of coronavirus, mostly in China, where two senior officials in Hubei province have been sacked over their role in combating the virus.

In Hong Kong, Chief Executive Carrie Lam appealed to people to stay home as much as possible to avoid the virus.

There are eight confirmed cases of coronavirus in the UK as health officials attempt to contact people who may have been in close contact with a so-called 'super spreader' who has so far infected 11 people in England, France and Spain.

The middle-aged man caught the virus at a conference in Singapore in January and then travelled to a ski resort in France, where five other British nationals were infected.

He is being treated at St Thomas's Hospital in London.

(Image: Julian Hamilton/Daily Mirror)

Four new cases were announced on Monday by the government, which issued new powers to keep people in quarantine after a passenger in quarantine at Arrowe Parke Hospital, Wirral, was "threatening to abscond", despite signing a contract agreeing to the isolation period.

The overall risk level in the UK remains "moderate" according to the government.

A GP practice in Brighton was temporarily closed on Monday after a staff member tested positive for coronavirus.

Patients at the County Oak medical centre were advised to dial the NHS 111 service if they had concerned.

(Image: PA)

Two of the eight people diagnosed with coronavirus in the UK are believed to be family doctors, as Public Health works to trace 12 patients who have been in contact with the doctors.

Yvonne Doyle, the medical director of Public Health England, said: "We are now working urgently to identify all patients and other healthcare workers who may have come into close contact, and at this stage we believe this to be a relatively small number".

The Department of Health said on Monday that the virus was a "serious and imminent threat" to public health.

A school in Southampton was also closed as a precaution amid concerns over coronavirus.

(Image: Getty Images)

St Mary's Independent School described the "precautionary" closure for three days as a result of "members of the school community" becoming ill having recently travelled to China.

On a quarantined cruise ship off the coast of Japan, another 65 passengers tested positive for coronavirus bringing the number to 135 positive out of 3,700 passengers.

The main symptoms of coronavirus are a high temperature, cough and shortness of breath and breathing difficulties.

The director general of the World Health Organisation, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the cases in the UK and France could be the spark "that becomes a bigger fire."

He said for now "it's only a spark. Our objective remains containment."