CLOSE

ST. CLOUD — St. Cloud State officials at a seminar Thursday on the new coronavirus said the risk to campus is low, but they are canceling plans for 58 students to travel to China this summer for a study-abroad program.

The university is monitoring the outbreak and determined the risk to campus is low, Medical Director Brent Nielsen said at the seminar.

Nielsen joined university professors Hung Chih “Alvin” Yu, Giovanni Antunez and Mikhail “Misha” Blinnikov, as well as Sally Sands and Jill Ruder from Stearns County Public Health, for the seminar.

All non-essential travel to China from St. Cloud State been canceled, affecting 58 students with plans to study abroad there in summer programs, said Shahzad Ahmad, associate vice president of the Center for International Studies.

The university follows guidelines from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention as well as the U.S. State Department to determine when to cancel travel.

There were no St. Cloud State students studying in China when the outbreak began, Ahmad said. Travel to other countries has not been canceled, but the university is looking out for other travel warnings through the CDC and the State Department.

Professors Giovanni Antunez and Mikhail Blinnikov, Medical Director Brent Nielsen, Stearns County Public Health Nurse Jill Ruder and Stearns County Public Health Coordinator Sally Sands answer questions on the new coronavirus during a seminar 2 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 6, 2020 at St. Cloud State. (Photo: Erik Newland)

Though Nielsen said the university is prepared if a case of coronavirus appears, he is more worried about influenza. "On campus, we've seen seven times more influenza than other years," he said.

It's not too late to get a flu shot, Nielsen said, and professors and students should stay home if they're sick.

Of the over 28,000 cases of a coronavirus confirmed since December, only 191 are outside of China, according to the World Health Organization.

The Associated Press reported Wednesday a Wisconsin resident tested positive for the new virus after returning from China — the 12th U.S. case. The University of Wisconsin Madison, where the patient was treated, has banned all student travel.

Nielsen acknowledged there are a lot of rumors circulating about the new virus. "You have to use reliable sources of information." He recommended people read the WHO's website for more information.

He compared the 12 confirmed cases of coronavirus to the thousands of influenza cases in the U.S. this year. "I don't feel, as a country or city or state, that we need to have fear," Nielsen said.

The virus, a member of the coronavirus family, is related to SARS and MERS viruses that have caused outbreaks in the past. Its symptoms range from mild cold-like symptoms to severe respiratory diseases.

Most of the people who have died from the new virus had underlying health concerns, Sand said.

It's likely the virus came from an animal source, Ruder said. According to WHO, it can take an infected person from 2 to 14 days to show symptoms, and it is spread through close contact via coughing and sneezing.

Story continues below

During the seminar, the professors drew many comparisons between the new virus and the SARS outbreak that began in China in 2002. So far, the new coronavirus has caused fewer deaths than the SARS outbreak that ended in 2003.

However, the new virus has spread much faster than SARS. It's possible that Wuhan's central location, connection to China's high-speed rail system, and large airport and markets contributed to its rapid transmission, Yu said.

Blinnikov conjectured that China's rapidly growing economy could have led to that higher outbreak risk. "China today is very different than China in 2003," he said.

There is no vaccine for the new coronavirus yet. St. Cloud State recommends following normal flu season preventative measures: hand-washing, covering your cough and avoiding contact if you or someone else has symptoms.

Erik Newland is the suburbs reporter for the St. Cloud Times. Reach him at 320-255-8761 or enewland@stcloudtimes.com. Follow him on Twitter @SCTimesErik.

Support local journalism. Subscribe to sctimes.com today.

Read or Share this story: https://www.sctimes.com/story/news/2020/02/06/scsu-sees-low-risk-coronavirus-but-cancels-trip-china/4678891002/