Sign up to FREE email alerts from BristolLive - Daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A Chinese woman found to have overstayed her visa was at the centre of coronavirus fears which led to two Bristol police stations being quarantined.

Patchway and Trinity Road stations were closed for five hours, from 7pm on January 22.

The quarantines came after concerns a woman arrested on suspicion of an immigration offence may have contracted coronavirus, an illness which can be deadly. The concerns followed disclosures the woman made to officers but the fears proved to be unfounded.

Now Bristol Live can reveal the 51-year-old woman had been arrested at an address on Surrey Street, St Pauls, on the afternoon of January 22.

A Home Office spokesman said Immigration Enforcement was contacted by Avon and Somerset police at around 3pm that day.

He added the woman was found to have overstayed her visa and has since been transferred to immigration detention, where she remains.

Coronavirus has killed at least 106 people this month and continues to spread across China, with the city of Wuhan at the centre of the outbreak.

The police stations were reopened after police took advice from Public Health England and found the woman did not have coronavirus and was not a risk to the public.

What police say

An Avon and Somerset police spokesman said: "At just before 7pm on January 22, staff at the custody unit at Patchway Police Centre became aware of a detainee displaying flu-like symptoms.

"There were initial concerns that the detainee, a Chinese national, may have had contact with people who had recently travelled from the Wuhan area of China.

"Following precautionary advice from the NHS and health practitioners, Patchway Police Centre was temporarily closed along with Trinity Road Police Station in Bristol, where officers involved in the arrest had travelled to.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

"As well as the officers and members of police staff, there was one member of the public at Trinity Road Police Station in Old Market, who was asked to remain in the building as a precaution while we sought further advice."

He said the woman was given appropriate medical attention.

Cases may already be in the UK

Some 17 Chinese cities with more than 50 million people have been placed on lockdown, as the number of confirmed coronavirus cases reached 4,515 on January 28.

Cases have also been confirmed in countries including Germany and the USA, with Professor Yvonne Doyle of Public Health England telling Sky News the first UK case is likely to come from someone already in the country.

Asked if there could be cases already in Britain, she said: "I would expect so."

Some 73 people have been tested for coronavirus in the UK, though all tests have come back negative.