This is a live blog. Please check back for updates.

All times below are in Beijing time.

7:30 am: Hubei reports 100 more deaths and 1,933 new cases

China's Hubei province said it has confirmed 1,933 new coronavirus cases and 100 more deaths as of Feb. 16. It said that the virus has infected 58,182 people in the province and killed 1,696 people in the region alone.

Hubei is the center of the outbreak and where the majority of cases and deaths are located. —Wang

© Provided by CNBC Chinese customers wear protective masks as they line up single file to buy dumplings at a popular local shop on February 16, 2020 in Beijing, China.

All times below are in Eastern time.

11:30 am: American citizens begin evacuating quarantined cruise ship in Japan

American passengers quarantined on the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Japan began evacuating on Sunday. Officials said they would be taken on a charter flight to one of two U.S. military air bases, where they will undergo a 14-day quarantine.

Passengers will be screened for symptoms prior to boarding. Americans that decide to not return on the charter flight will be unable to travel to the U.S. until March 4, according to the American Embassy in Tokyo.

Japanese officials said the quarantine aboard the ship should end on Feb. 19. There were 355 cases of the virus confirmed as of Sunday, with roughly 3,700 total passengers and crew on board. —Newburger

10:50 am: China pharmaceutical company to sell Favipiravir drug as potential virus treatment

Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceutical, one of the largest pharmaceutical manufacturers in China, has received approval to start selling Favipiravir as a potential treatment for the virus, according to a company filing. The company must still continue clinical trials of the antiviral drug, which is being developed by Toyama Chemical of Japan, after it hits the market. —Newburger

6:21 am: Taiwan confirms death of man with no known history of travel to China

Taiwan said a man in his 60s with a history of hepatitis B and diabetes has died of the virus. It's the first death on the island. The man died Saturday after nearly two weeks in a hospital, but does not have a known history of traveling to China.

Health officials are investigating how he became infected. Taiwan has 20 confirmed cases of the virus. —Newburger

Read CNBC's coverage from the U.S. overnight: U.S. begins evacuating quarantined cruise ship in Japan

— CNBC's Emma Newburger contributed to this report.