Despite its increasing detection in numerous countries, the World Health Organization says the outbreak of the new coronavirus has not yet reached the level of a pandemic.

Dr. Sylvie Briand, WHO's director of epidemic and pandemic diseases, told reporters in Geneva Tuesday the outbreak is at the phase "where it is an epidemic with multiple foci."

As of Tuesday, at least 425 people, the majority in mainland China, have died from the coronavirus since it was first detected in December in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, with the total number of confirmed infections exceeding 20,000. There are about 150 confirmed cases in 23 other countries, including one death in the Philippines -- the first outside of China.

The epidemic has also been detected on the high seas. More than 3,000 passengers and crew aboard a cruise ship anchored off the Japanese port of Yokohama were quarantined after a passenger tested positive for the virus. Cruise operator Carnival Japan says the passenger was an 80-year-old man who disembarked from the Diamond Princess on January 25 after it docked in Hong Kong. The ship's departure has been delayed as health workers conduct tests on all 2,666 passengers and 1,045 crew members.

Meanwhile, medical workers in Hong Kong staged a second consecutive day of strikes Tuesday as the Chinese territory reported its first death from the coronavirus.

Hong Kong shut down nearly all land and sea border crossings with the mainland at midnight local time after more than 2,000 medical workers walked off the job Monday demanding that all border crossings be closed completely. Hong Kong was hit hard by severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in 2002-03.

Protesters wearing masks hold placards reads" Close the border, say no to China" during a protest at a mall in Hong Kong, Tuesday, Feb. 4, 2020.

Hong Kong health authorities identified the victim as a 39-year-old male with a pre-existing illness who had recently visited Wuhan.

Also Tuesday, the Chinese gambling territory of Macau said it will temporarily shut down all casino operations for two weeks to help curb the spread of the virus.

A new study published Monday in the journal Nature said experts from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, which specializes in the study of viruses, say the new virus is 96% genetically identical to one found in bats in southern China's Yunnan province.

The study said the new coronavirus is 80% genetically similar to the SARS virus that killed more than 800 people in 2002 and 2003.

Chinese officials do not know exactly how the virus could have been transmitted from animals to people, but believe open-air markets in China, where wild and domesticated animals are sold, may be a contributor.

WHO said it expects the number of cases to grow as test results are returned on thousands of pending cases.

A public service announcement that encouraging people to wear face masks plays on a subway train during the morning rush hour in Beijing, Feb. 3, 2020.

Chinese authorities have tried to stop the spread by instituting bans on movement in certain regions, and extending holidays to keep people away from schools and other large gatherings.

Beijing, however, is upset that a number of countries are restricting travelers from China from crossing their borders.

Government spokeswoman Hua Chunying accused the United States of spreading fear and not offering any substantial assistance in response to the outbreak.

She said Washington has “unceasingly manufactured and spread panic," noting that the WHO has advised against travel restrictions.

U.S. President Donald Trump has offered to send experts from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to China, but Beijing has yet to accept the offer of help.

The United States began mandatory 14-day quarantines Sunday for U.S. citizens who had been in Hubei province, of which Wuhan is the capital. But non-U.S. citizens who have been in China over the past two weeks are barred.

Chief Pentagon spokesman Jonathan Rath Hoffman said Monday the United States is already prepared to provide housing for up to 1,000 people who may need to be quarantined. He also said the United States is “always planning for eventualities and how we may be asked by civilian partners to assist.”