A man wearing a protective face mask at Chinatown in Singapore on 19 February, 2020. (PHOTO: Barcroft Media via Getty Images)

SINGAPORE — The Ministry of Health (MOH) on Thursday (20 February) confirmed one new case of the novel coronavirus in Singapore, bringing the total to 85.

The new case, a 36-year-old male Chinese national, did not travel to China recently.

Contact tracing for the man is underway to establish any links to previous cases or travel history to China, said the ministry. In all, nine out of 63 locally transmitted cases currently have no established links to previous cases or travel history to mainland China.

Separately, three more patients have been discharged from the hospital, including two Chinese nationals, 56 and 38, and a 28-year-old Singaporean man linked to the Grace Assembly of God cluster.

This brings the total of those who have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospital to 37.

Case 85: Chinese national with work pass

The 36-year-old male Chinese national, a Singapore work pass holder, tested positive for the virus on Thursday morning. He is currently warded in an isolation room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID).

The ministry said that most of the 48 remaining patients in the hospital are stable or improving. Four remain in critical condition in the intensive care unit.

As of Thursday noon, the MOH has identified 2,616 close contacts who have been quarantined. Of these, 1,147 are currently quarantined, and 1,469 have completed their quarantine.

It also reiterated its advice for Singaporeans to defer all travel to Hubei province, home to Wuhan where the virus originated, and all non-essential travel to mainland China.

More details on case 83 & 84: Locals linked to churches

The ministry also provided more details on two locally transmitted cases, a 54-year-old Singaporean man and a 35-year-old Singaporean woman, who were announced on Wednesday. Both had not travelled to China recently.

The man, the sixth case linked to The Life Church and Missions Singapore cluster, was said to travel frequently to Malaysia for work purposes. The ministry had not specified his occupation.

The man reported developing symptoms on 28 January and had sought treatment at a general practitioner clinic on 1 February, 5 February, 6 February and 10 February.

He went to the NCID on Tuesday. He had tested positive for the virus the next morning and is currently warded in an isolation room at the NCID.

Prior to his hospital admission, the Rivervale Drive resident had gone to work at Philemon Singapore at 16 Kallang Place

Previous cases linked to the church included a married couple from Wuhan and three other Singaporeans.

(INFOGRAPHIC: Yahoo News Singapore) More

The woman, the 22nd patient linked to the Grace Assembly of God cluster, had gone to work at Lonza Biologics at 35 Tuas South Avenue 6 and visited Bugis Junction prior to her hospital admission.

The Aljunied Road resident had reported developing symptoms on 4 February and had sought treatment at a general practitioner clinic on 4 and 5 February.

She is linked to a 28-year-old Singaporean man, previously confirmed as a case also linked to the church, who was discharged on Thursday.

As she was identified as his contact, the woman was referred to the NCID on Tuesday and tested positive for the virus the next morning. She is currently warded in an isolation room at the NCID.

COVID-19’s death toll surpasses SARS epidemic

The novel strain belongs to the same family of coronaviruses as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which killed nearly 800 people globally during a 2002-2003 outbreak and also started in China.