Sign up to FREE email alerts from Irish Mirror - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A group of Chinese tourists are believed to have jetted to Ireland from the epicentre of the deadly coronavirus outbreak – a day before the city was locked down.

Pictures posted online show some of the party posing at Trinity College in Dublin, the Titanic Quarter in Belfast and aboard the ferry from Holyhead.

There is no evidence any of the group was infected by the virus, but members of the Chinese community here say they are alarmed nothing has been done to trace and talk to them.

The tourists were slammed on Chinese social media site Weibo for behaving “selfishly”.

A member of the party posted: “We are only tour from Hubei that can travel in UK. That’s not easy.”

One concerned Chinese national here told the Irish Mirror: “No one knows where they are now. Lots of people told them on social media they would be contacting the embassy here to report the situation.”

The group are understood to be from Wuhan and flew out on a tour of Ireland and the UK before a quarantine last week turned the city into a ghost town.

What is coronavirus?

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)

Coronaviruses are a group of viruses that cause respiratory infections.

There are seven known strains that can infect humans, including the new virus detected in China.

They range in how serious they are, with some causing a common cold, and others causing pneumonia.

To date, the most famous coronavirus is the SARS virus, which has a mortality rate of between 9% and 50%, depending on the age of the patient.

Under a microscope, coronaviruses have a crown shape, which is where they get their name - 'corona' means crown in Latin.

What are the symptoms of the China coronavirus?

Health officials in China have reported that early symptoms of the new coronavirus include a high fever, shortness of breath, coughing and tightness of the chest.

It causes viral pneumonia, and in severe cases it has led to kidney failure and death.

People with weakened immune systems, babies and the elderly are particularly susceptible to coronaviruses.

Is it contagious?

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

While authorities initially believed that every single case of the new coronavirus was linked to the seafood market in Wuhan, China's National Health Commission has now confirmed that the disease can spread from person to person.

At least two people have caught the new coronavirus from family members and it's believed that health workers have also been infected.

Coronaviruses are typically spread through the air, with infected people coughing or sneezing, or by close personal contact, such as shaking hands.

It's also possible to be infected by touching an object or surface with the virus on it, and then touching your mouth, nose or eyes before washing your hands.

Is it fatal?

(Image: Getty)

So far (as of January 24) 26 people are reported to have died of the coronavirus, although many are thought to have had pre-existing medical conditions.

Over 800 have been infected.

Is there a treatment for coronavirus?

As the coronavirus is a virus, there is no treatment.

Patients can be given pain medication to relieve the symptoms, but the virus will not respond to antibiotics.

How far has coronavirus spread?

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

There are confirmed cases of the new coronavirus in Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the USA, all involving patients who have recently travelled to China.

Is there coronavirus in Ireland?

There have not been any cases of the new coronavirus confirmed in Ireland, as of January 24.

On January 23 Belfast Live reported one patient at Royal Victoria Hospital in Belfast was being "isolated" for tests to see if they were carrying the disease, but it was considered unlikely.

However, several people in the UK have been tested for the virus and a Public Health England boss has said a case there is "highly likely".

Heathrow Airport has set up screening for passengers arriving from Wuhan, the epicentre of the disease, and the NHS is on high alert.