BEIJING: China reported its fewest new coronavirus infections since January on Tuesday (Feb 18) and its lowest daily death toll for a week, but the World Health Organization said data suggesting the epidemic had slowed should still be viewed with caution.

The head of a leading hospital in China's central city of Wuhan, epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak, died of the disease, becoming one of the most prominent victims since the disease first appeared at the end of last year.

Advertisement

Advertisement

Illustrating the impact of the outbreak on worldwide growth and corporate profits, oil prices tumbled and equity markets slid after Apple Inc issued a revenue warning due to the disruption the disease is causing to global supply chains.

Chinese officials reported 1,886 new cases - the first time the daily figure has fallen below 2,000 since Jan 30 - bringing the mainland China total to 72,436. A figure of 98 new deaths marked the first time the daily toll in China had fallen below 100 since Feb 11, bringing the total to 1,868.

A recovered patient (in wheelchair) is discharged from Leishenshan Hospital, the newly-built makeshift hospital for COVID-19 patients, in Wuhan in China's central Hubei province. (STR/AFP)

World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said Chinese data "appears to show a decline in new cases" but any apparent trend "must be interpreted very cautiously".

Advertisement

Advertisement

Outside China, there have been 827 cases of COVID-19 and five deaths, according to a Reuters count based on official statements. More than half of those cases have been on a cruise ship quarantined off Japan.

Tedros said there had been 92 cases of human-to-human spread of the coronavirus in 12 countries outside China but the WHO did not have the data to make meaningful comparisons to what was going on in China.

"We have not seen sustained local transmission of coronavirus except in specific circumstances like the Diamond Princess cruise ship," he said.

China says figures indicating a slowdown in new cases in recent days show that aggressive steps it has taken to curb travel and commerce are slowing the spread of the disease beyond central Hubei province and its capital, Wuhan.

A member of the medical staff massages a patient who has displayed mild symptoms of the COVID-19 coronavirus at an exhibition centre converted into a hospital in Wuhan in China's central Hubei province. (STR/AFP)

The WHO's Mike Ryan said China had had success with "putting out the fire" first in Hubei and ensuring that people returning to Beijing from the Lunar New Year holiday are monitored.

The numbers appear encouraging, said Mark Woolhouse, a professor of infectious disease epidemiology at Britain's University of Edinburgh, who described himself as cautious.

"Though it is unrealistic to reduce the transmission rate to zero it may have been reduced to a level where the epidemic is brought under control," Woolhouse said.

"It may be that the epidemic is simply running its natural course, and is starting to run out of new people to infect. It could also be that the unprecedented public health measures introduced in China are having the desired effect."

Chinese state television said Liu Zhiming, the director of Wuhan Wuchang Hospital, died on Tuesday, the seventh health worker to fall victim. The hospital was designated solely for treating virus-infected patients.

GLOBAL REPERCUSSIONS

Despite global concerns about the economic impact of the disease, China's ambassador to the European Union said on Tuesday this would be "limited, short-term and manageable" and that Beijing had enough resources to step in if needed.

Chinese state television quoted President Xi Jinping as saying China could still meet its economic growth target for 2020 despite the epidemic.

Economists are warning of potential mass layoffs in China later this year if the virus is not contained soon.

"The employment situation is OK in the first quarter, but if the virus is not contained by end-March, then from the second quarter, we'll see a big round of layoffs," said Dan Wang, an analyst with the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU). Job losses could run as high as 4.5 million, he forecast.

Britain's biggest car manufacturer, Jaguar Land Rover, has flown Chinese parts in suitcases to Britain to maintain production and could run out after two weeks because of the coronavirus.

Components made in China are used in millions of vehicles assembled around the world and Hubei province is a major hub for vehicle parts production and shipments.

South Korean President Moon Jae-in said the economy there was in an emergency situation and required stimulus as the epidemic had disrupted demand for South Korean goods.

Ryan said the WHO had "prioritised supplies" of protective equipment for reclusive North Korea, which is technically still at war with the South after their 1950-53 conflict ended in a truce, not a treaty, at the same time as saying there was no indication of any coronavirus cases there.

Singapore announced a S$4 billion financial package to help contain the outbreak and weather its economic impact.

Japan, where the economy was already shrinking and the epidemic has created fears of recession, the spread of the virus has prompted Tokyo to put limits on public crowds while some companies are telling employees to work from home.

And, starting on Thursday, Russia will suspend entry of Chinese citizens for employment, private, educational and tourist purposes, health authorities said, adding that the move would be temporary.

Download our app or subscribe to our Telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak: https://cna.asia/telegram