China’s quarantine efforts freeze economic activities

The Chinese government is facing a dilemma in battling against the coronavirus outbreak.

As local officials put top priority on containing the outbreak, several Chinese cities have shut down their transportation systems and ordered local residents to stay indoors to curb the spread of the new virus. Economic activities have almost come to a halt as a result.

Beijing may hope to get rid of the epidemic with such “shock therapy”, but if these measures last more than a month, the economy could suffer serious damage.

Over the last weekend, factory bosses, SME owners and managers of big companies started complaining about the economic losses.

Currently, over 80 Chinese cities have adopted a shut-down mode, to varying degrees. The list includes business hubs like Shenzhen, Tianjin and Guangzhou. It remains uncertain when factories and companies can fully resume operation.

One factory owner in the eastern province of Zhejiang disclosed on social media that most of his foreign customers have switched orders to firms in Southeast Asia, for fear of continued disruptions to the supply chain.

During this period, the factory, which hires over 600 workers, still has to pay rent and wages, plus servicing debt payment, despite getting zero revenue.

The owner said existing cash reserve can only last less than one month, and he may have to close the factory if the situation does not improve by the end of this month.

Meanwhile, restaurants are suffering even more given that rent and wages represent a bigger share of their costs.

It’s said local governments in northeast and northwest regions, where there are less severe outbreaks, will allow local factories to resume operation on a case-by-case approach.

But business owners have to sign letters pledging the provision of sufficient protection for employees, or they will be held accountable.

Interestingly, the stock market has held up quite well, as some fund managers consider the listed firms ultimate winners when the economy emerges from the crisis, which is eliminating the weaker players.

We should be able to gauge the effectiveness of the shut-down approach in the coming one or two weeks as Hubei, where the outbreak started, imposed quarantine since the beginning of this month.

Hopefully, as the number of newly confirmed cases starts to come down, economic activities will resume gradually.

This article appeared in the Hong Kong Economic Journal on Feb 10

Translation by Julie Zhu

[Chinese version 中文版]

– Contact us at [email protected]

RC