The Chinese food market at the centre of the deadly SARS-like virus outbreak claimed they were selling live koalas, snakes, rats and wolf pups for locals to cook and eat.

The Huanan Seafood Market in the central city of Wuhan in China came under scrutiny on Wednesday after Chinese officials said the coronavirus may have originated in a wild animal sold at the food emporium.

The market has since been closed and has been labelled 'ground zero' by local authorities.

The highly-contagious virus has killed 17 people and infected hundreds in China, South Korea, Japan, Thailand, Hong Kong and the US.

A list of prices for one of the businesses operating at the market showed a menagerie of animals available for sale including live foxes, crocodiles, wolf puppies, giant salamanders, snakes, rats, peacocks, porcupines, koalas and game meats, according to the South China Morning Post.

The food menu shows a price of 70 RMB for koala meat.

Even Chinese social media users were surprised at at the wildlife being sold at the market

'Just took a closer look at the viral wild animal menu - they even eat Koalas', one wrote on Chinese language site, Weibo.

'There's nothing Chinese people won't eat'.

There are 112 live animals and animal products on the list.

Wuhan Huanan Seafood Market (above) is allegedly selling wild animals including live wolf pups, civets and even koalas according to the South China Morning Post.

A list of prices for one of the businesses operating at the market showed 'live tree bears' which is the Chinese for 'koala' (circled above)

The highly-contagious virus has killed 17 people and infected hundreds in China, South Korea , Japan , Thailand , Hong Kong and the US

'Freshly slaughtered, frozen and delivered to your door,' said the price list for the vendor called Wild Game Animal Husbandry for the Masses.

Gao Fu, director of the Chinese centre for disease control and prevention, said in Beijing on Wednesday that authorities believe the virus likely came from 'wild animals at the seafood market' though the exact source remains undetermined.

10 THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT CHINA'S CORONAVIRUS 1. At least 17 people have been killed, all in the Chinese province of Hubei 2. At least 500 people in China's 18 provinces, autonomous regions, special administrative regions and municipalities have been infected 3. The vast majority of patients are related to Wuhan, the provincial capital of Hubei with a population of around 11 million 4. Thailand, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and the United States have all reported confirmed cases 5. The virus can be passed between humans 6. It has certain ability to spread within a neighbourhood 7. The virus has mainly been passed through the human respiratory system 8. The source of the virus has been identified as the illegally sold wildlife meat 9. The virus can evolve 10. It is more difficult for children to contract the virus, the reason remains unknown Source: China's National Health Commission, People's Daily

China bans the trafficking of a number of wild species or requires special licenses, but regulations are loose for some species if they are commercially farmed.

The Beijing News published a photo on Tuesday showing the same vendor's now-shuttered store front, as authorities in white hazmat suits milled about.

The paper also quoted other merchants as saying trade in wildlife took place up until the market was shuttered for disinfection shortly after the outbreak.

A number of the early sufferers of the coronavirus were employees of the market.

AFP tried unsuccessfully to contact the vendor.

Experts have warned it is 'possible' the virus will hit Australia.

Chief Medical Officer ­Brendan Murphy met with Prime Minister Scott Morrison at the Department of Health's National Incident Room in Canberra.

'We do have a lot of traffic from China and I think it's quite possible we will get some cases here but I'm very ­confident that we're well ­prepared to respond if we do,' Professor Murphy said.

'We currently have over 10 million masks even though we distributed 3.5 million during the bushfires, so we've got a good stockpile.'

Mr Morrison was adamant that the country was well-equipped.

'The states and Commonwealth are working together to stay ahead of this,' Mr Morrison said.

Wild animals ready to be sold at The Huanan Seafood Market in Wuhan in China

A photo of slaughtered animals hanging at the markets at the centre of the coronavirus outbreak

A Melbourne man was rushed to hospital for respiratory problems after a trip to China but was later cleared.

Another man in Brisbane was also suspected of contracting the disease but was cleared on Wednesday.

Australia will begin screening passengers that land from Wuhan where a new deadly virus was discovered last month.

The new screening efforts will only be in place at Sydney Airport where three direct flights from Wuhan land per week on Mondays, Thursdays and Saturdays.

When China Eastern Airlines flight MU749 lands on Thursday, passengers will be met by biosecurity staff from New South Wales Health and Border Force officials.

Huanan seafood market has been closed while Authorities carry out checks and cleaning

Passengers are expected to be screened for high temperatures with thermal imaging - but the method is not 100 per cent successful because people can harbour the coronavirus with no symptoms for days.

Anyone who does have a high temperature or is feeling unwell will be interviewed by officials.

It comes as US health authorities on Tuesday announced the first case of a person on American soil being diagnosed with the virus as millions of travellers prepare to take flights for Lunar New Year on Saturday.

Plane passengers in China are being screened after an outbreak of the deadly coronavirus

Bats are thought to have spawned SARS, which in 2002-03 killed hundreds of people in Asia, mostly China.

SARS was also found in civets in wildlife markets in China, with many scientists believing the bat virus infected the cat-like creatures and then humans who ate them.

Following SARS, China cracked down on consumption of civets and some other species, but conservationists say the trade continues.

China has so far won praise for its openness and handling of the current outbreak in stark contrast to SARS, when it was accused of stifling information and failing to cooperate with the rest of the world.