Christian Keenan/Getty Images

A coronavirus that originated in Wuhan, China has killed nearly three times as many people in eight weeks than severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) did in eight months.

More than 2,100 people have died from the Wuhan coronavirus, and at least 75,500 have been infected across 27 countries. (For the latest case total, death toll, and travel information, see Business Insider's live updates here.)

The new disease, called COVID-19, is marked by fevers and pneumonia-like symptoms. It's conjured a sense of déja vu for some who remember the SARS outbreak that started in November 2002. SARS was also a coronavirus, and it jumped to people from animals in wet markets, which the new coronavirus probably did, too. The two viruses share 80% of their genetic codes.

Experts called SARS "the first pandemic of the 21st century," since it spread across 29 countries. The virus emerged in Guangdong and infected 8,098 people over the course of eight months, killing 774. Just a month after the first confirmed case of the novel coronavirus, the total global case count surpassed that of SARS.

The new coronavirus appears to be less deadly than SARS, however. The mortality rate for SARS was 9.6%, whereas COVID-19 seems to kill between 1% and 2% of those infected.

"In essence, it's a version of SARS that spreads more easily but causes less damage," Ian Jones, a virologist at the University of Reading in the UK, said on February 3.

Here are some of the crucial differences between this outbreak and the SARS pandemic 17 years ago.

The first report of the novel coronavirus came on December 31, though some people might have gotten sick earlier that month.

Wuhan More

Google Maps/Business Insider

Wuhan is a city of 11 million people in the central province of Hubei, China. SARS originated in the Guangdong province in southeastern China, near Hong Kong.

Patients with SARS experienced fevers, headaches, and a type of deadly pneumonia that could cause respiratory failure. That virus hasn't been seen in humans since July 2003.

The new coronavirus has spread far faster than SARS did.

FILE PHOTO: A nurse wearing protective gear walks outside a Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Clinic (SARS) in suburban Toronto, April 24, 2003. REUTERS/Mike Cassese/File Photo More

Reuters

It took eight months for SARS to infect more than 8,000 people. COVID-19 has infected more than 75,000 people in about eight weeks.

Most experts think the new coronavirus' incubation period ranges from one to 14 days, though a recent study from China's National Health Commission (which has yet to be peer-reviewed) suggested it could be as long as 24 days. SARS' average incubation period, by comparison, was seven days.

The new coronavirus may jump between people before patients show symptoms, but scientists aren't sure about that yet, either.

The new coronavirus' fatality rate has not yet been determined with accuracy, but it seems to be between 1% and 2.3% so far. The SARS fatality rate was 9.6%.