CLOSE Officials survey flooding in Jackson neighborhood. Mississippi Clarion Ledger

Story Highlights Pearl River remains above flood stage days after cresting.

Rankin County receives less damage than surrounding counties.

MEMA will seek federal assistance for individuals and local governments.

Number of damaged homes could change after assessments completed.

Around 450 homes were damaged in Hinds and Madison counties from flooding in the Jackson metro area earlier this month.

Before the flooding from the Pearl River started, officials had projected up to 2,500 structures, including about 1,000 homes, could be affected.

Mississippi Emergency Management officials said Monday in an email the number is a rough estimate and is likely to change.

'Never seen anything like this': Jackson flooding victim trying to salvage what he can

MEMA on Monday began conducting in-depth damage assessments.

In Rankin County, around 18 structures reportedly were damaged, with less than five that were homes, Rankin County Emergency Management Director Mike Word said.

"We didn’t have anything near to what they had in Madison and Hinds counties," he said.

Jackson flooding: Harbor Pines residents return to check homes as Pearl River recedes

The Pearl River at Jackson is slowly receding, but will take a few days before it reaches below-flood stage levels.

MEMA officials said the water has receded across affected areas around Jackson, and river levels will continue to fall throughout the week.

(Story continues after photo gallery.)

MEMA said last week it would seek federal assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency for individuals whose homes were damaged as well as counties with damaged infrastructure, buildings and equipment, spokeswoman Malary White said. MEMA also will seek help from the U.S. Small Business Association, which often issues federal low-interest disaster loans.

Hinds County must document at least $942,000 in damage to to obtain federal money under a disaster declaration for public infrastructure, and Rankin County must show at least $544,000 in damages, White said.

The shelter in Jackson has closed, but a resource center at Christ United Methodist Church, 6000 Old Canton Road in Jackson, remains open until 5 p.m. Tuesday.

The resource center opened Friday to assist flood victims and has received 124 work orders.

Flooding recovery: What you need to know about garbage pickup, resources

On Monday the river was at 29.83 feet, as of 10:15 a.m. Flood stage is at 28 feet. National Weather Service forecasters predict the Pearl will dip below flood stage late Friday.

The river crested at 36.8 feet in Jackson on Feb. 17, according to the National Weather Service.

The Pearl River was still well above flood stage south of Jackson on Monday, causing minor flooding in areas around Rockport in Copiah counties, Monticello in Lawrence County and moderate damage in Columbia and Marion County.

The Big Black River also was receding, with minor flooding reported near West and further south around Bovina. The river is still causing moderate flooding near Bentonia.

How to report damage

If you live in the Jackson metro area, you can report damage online.

Click on your county of residence to use the self-reporting tool.

Hinds County residents: https://www.crisistrack.com/public/hindsMS/request.html

Rankin County residents: https://www.crisistrack.com/public/rankinMS/request.html

Madison County residents: https://www.crisistrack.com/public/madisonMS/request.html

If you live in other areas of Mississippi, contact your county's emergency management office, which may be found here: https://www.msema.org/county-ema.

Contact Lici Beveridge at 601-584-3104 or lbeveridge@gannett.com. Follow her on Twitter @licibev.

Read or Share this story: https://www.clarionledger.com/story/news/local/2020/02/24/mema-450-homes-damaged-jackson-area-pearl-river-flooding-hinds-madison-rankin/4857542002/