Coronavirus crisis overshadows Lunar New Year celebrations in China

Updated

An outbreak of a new coronavirus that began in the central Chinese city of Wuhan has killed 41 people and infected more than 1,300 globally.

Key points: More than a dozen cities have unprecedented shutdowns imposed

Chinese authorities estimate confirmed cases of coronavirus at almost 900

Official media outlets pay tribute to the "sacrifice" of Wuhan residents

China has confirmed 1,287 cases of patients infected with the new coronavirus as of January 24, while the death toll from the virus has risen to 41.

Chinese state media also reported a doctor at a hospital in Hubei province, where the outbreak is most prevalent, has died.

Liang Wudong, a doctor at Hubei Xinhua Hospital who had been at the front line of the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan city, died from the virus aged 62, it said.

Celebrations for Lunar New Year in China have been overshadowed by the outbreak of the highly infectious virus, with authorities in Beijing and other cities cancelling many public celebrations and other events marking Lunar New Year.

The week-long celebrations to welcome the Year of the Rat began on Friday, raising fears the infection rate could accelerate as hundreds of millions of people have already travelled to see family at home and abroad.

The first three cases of the infection have also been declared in Europe — both in France.

Most cases have been in the city of Wuhan, where the virus is believed to have originated in a market that traded illegally in wildlife.

On the eve of the Lunar New Year, transportation was shut down in at least 13 cities with a combined population of some 36 million people.

Cutting off access to entire cities with millions of residents to stop a new virus outbreak is a step few countries other than China would consider, but it is made possible by the ruling Communist Party's extensive social controls and experience fighting the 2002-03 outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).

Normally bustling streets, malls and other public spaces were eerily quiet in Wuhan on the second day of its lockdown.

Pharmacies were running out of supplies and hospitals were flooded with nervous residents seeking checks.

Some users on the Weibo social media site said their family members had sought diagnoses but were turned away at hospitals that were at capacity.

At least eight hospitals in Wuhan issued public calls for donations of masks, goggles, gowns and other protective medical gear, according to notices online.

China's Government has announced it is sending in military medics to Wuhan.

'Emergency in China' but not yet global health emergency

The World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared the new coronavirus an "emergency in China" but stopped short of declaring it of international concern.

Most of the cases and all of the deaths have been in China, but it has also been detected in a number of other nations.

France declared its first three confirmed cases of the coronavirus on Friday (local time), with two patients being hospitalised in Paris and the other in the south-western city of Bordeaux.

The third case was a relative of one of the first two and one of the cases, a 48-year-old man, had returned from a trip to China two days ago which included a stop in Wuhan.

French Health Minister Agnes Buzyn told a news that more cases were likely to occur in France.

Thailand has confirmed four cases, Malaysia has three, Japan, South Korea and the United States have confirmed two cases each, while Taiwan and Singapore have reported one each.

Japan, Vietnam, South Korea and the United States have all reported two domestic cases.

Nepal and Taiwan has reported one each, while Thailand has confirmed five cases.

An Indian nurse working in Saudi Arabia has also been infected, Indian authorities said, although Saudi health authorities said there had been no cases in the country so far.

Authorities say they have also confirmed 2,197 cases where people have had close contact with patients.

Airports worldwide are screening passengers arriving from China, with the US warning travellers to exercise increased caution in China.

Hong Kong, which has two confirmed cases, is turning two holiday camps into quarantine stations as a precaution. Taiwan has banned anyone from Wuhan from going to the island.

Symptoms include fever, difficulty breathing and coughing. Most of the fatalities have been elderly people, many with pre-existing conditions, the WHO said.

Preliminary research suggested it crossed to humans from snakes.

Some experts believe the virus is not as dangerous as the one that caused the 2002-03 SARS outbreak, which also began in China and killed nearly 800 people, or the one that caused Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), which has killed more than 700 people since 2012.

It can lead to pneumonia, which has been deadly in some cases.

"To address the insufficiency of existing medical resources," Wuhan is constructing a 1,000-bed hospital modelled after the Xiaotangshan SARS hospital in Beijing, local authorities said.

While restrictions on travel and gatherings have already been imposed, China will take stricter and more targeted measures, state television reported citing a State Council meeting, but gave no further details.

"The spread of the virus has not been cut off … Local authorities should take more responsibility and have a stronger sense of urgency," state broadcaster CCTV said.

Guan Yi, a professor of infectious diseases at the University of Hong Kong, told the New York Times that despite the control measures, there continued to be "a chance to have a pandemic outbreak".

The US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention said on Friday it had 63 patients under investigation, with two confirmed cases.

A woman from the city of Chicago, 60, and a man in his 30's became the first US patients, diagnosed after returning from Wuhan.

On Friday, US President Donald Trump praised China's handling of the coronavirus on Twitter.

"China has been working very hard to contain the coronavirus. The United States greatly appreciates their efforts and transparency. It will all work out well. In particular, on behalf of the American People, I want to thank President Xi!" Mr Trump wrote.

ABC/wires

Topics: diseases, government-and-politics, health, respiratory-diseases, infectious-diseases-other, china, asia

First posted