The video will start in 8 Cancel

Sign up to FREE email alerts from Mirror - daily news Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

China has confirmed nine people have died while 440 other in 13 provinces are infected with the killer Coronavirus.

The country's National Health Commission said the number of confirmed cases in changing rapidly as the virus continues to "mutate".

It comes as the US confirmed its first victim as a man in his 30s from Washington State who fell ill last weekend after travelling to his hometown in China.

Vice minister Li Bin said there is evidence of the disease being spread via "respiratory transmission" from patient to patient.

Wuhan, where the virus originated, and Hubei have been tasked with taking the strictest possible measures to stop the illness from spreading.

Public gatherings will be limited, while passengers are already being tested on planes.

The government has already made "effective work on tracking the virus," Minister Li said.

(Image: Getty Images) (Image: STR/EPA-EFE/REX)

Residents of Wuhan City have been advised not to travel and live animals are not allowed to enter.

When asked to compare the deadliness of coronavirus to SARS, the head of China's Disease Control Centre said they are still learning about the new virus, which is "adapting and mutating".

Gao Fu, the director-general of China's Centre for Disease Control said the virus originated from illegal wildlife transactions at a market.

An official for China's National Health Commission said they are taking strict measures in hospitals to protect healthcare workers and stop the virus from spreading further.

The official said they have no evidence of "super spreaders" so far.

Meanwhile, a Chinese physician who was investigating the outbreak of a deadly new virus in central China says he has himself been infected.

Wang Guangfa, who heads the Department of Pulmonary Medicine at Beijing's Peking University First Hospital, was part of a team of experts that earlier this month visited Wuhan, where the coronavirus emerged.

Chinese state television reported Wednesday morning that Wang had been in treatment in isolation since Tuesday, suspected of being infected by the new coronavirus.

"I was diagnosed and my condition is fine," Wang told Hong Kong's Cable TV on Tuesday, thanking people for their concern.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

(Image: Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA)

Meanwhile, Terry Gou, the billionaire founder of Apple supplier Foxconn, said he was advising company employees not to visit China over the coming Lunar New Year holiday, amid concerns over coronavirus.

"The speed of contagion will be no less than SARS," Gou said at the company's Lunar New Year party.

"I advise everyone not to go to the mainland for this coming New Year holiday."

Macau also confirmed its first case of pneumonia linked to an outbreak of a new coronavirus strain in Wuhan.

While China works to contain the virus, it has already spread with South Korea, Japan and Taiwan confirming one case each.

Fifteen medical personnel are among those infected.

(Image: REUTERS)

Masked workers were spraying disinfectant at Incheon international airport, west of Seoul, today.

While in Malaysia health officials were checking passengers in thermal scanner at Kuala Lumpur International Airport.

And nervous travellers were wearing protective face masks outside a railway station in Yichang in central China’s Hubei province, as the outbreak revives memories of the SARS pandemic, which killed 800.

It comes after footage filmed on a flight from Wuhan to Macau last week showed a medic - dressed in protective sterile clothing - screening passengers.

The World Health Organisation is holding an emergency committee meeting on Wednesday to consider declaring a global health emergency.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that cause illnesses ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars).

They usually are usually transmitted from animals to people.

(Image: REUTERS)

However the new strain is thought to spread from person to person through coughing and sneezing.

Dr Nathalie MacDermott, National Institute for Health Research academic clinical lecturer, King’s College London, said: “While data is still limited it appears likely that the Wuhan Coronavirus is spread through contact with an infected person’s secretions and respiratory droplet infection - this is contact with small particles in the air that occur when an infected person coughs or sneezes.”

Public Health England said travellers to Wuhan should practise good hand and respiratory hygiene and avoid animal and bird markets.