Professor Georges Vial-Mazel Credit:Staff photographer "The Australian people have no idea of what is going on outside their own country. I have come down through Brisbane, Sydney and now Melbourne and few people seem to know anything of the serious events going on in Indo-China. “When it is too late they will waken up. By that time the Communist campaign will have flared up in Indo-China and in Siam and then spread down into Malaysia. Why don't you people look at the map? These countries by air — are only a matter of hours away from your own doorstep." Professor Vial-Mazel, confirmed the fact that 125,000 troops (already reported in "The Age"), were now deployed in Indo-China to prevent Ho Chi-minh’s Communist puppet Government from over-throwing the new regime of the Emperor Bao Dai. "Russia's recognition of the Ho Chi-minh Government is a piece of downright impertinence," said the professor. "For M. Vyshinsky to state officially that the Republic of Vietnam represents the overwhelming majority of the population in Indo-China is a reflection on his ability as a Foreign Minister."

In Indo-China The position In Indo-China was much the same as the same as that in Malaya, said the professor. The Vietnam insurgents could not be pinned down in any one place. Dr. Ho Chi-minh issued his orders from mysterious places yet his propaganda was such — and so effective — that people, quite wrongly were given the impression that it was only a matter of time before the Emperor Bao Dai must quit. "Certainly the French will not leave Bai Dal to fight alone in Indo-China," said Professor Vial-Mazel. “The moment the French leave the country will be over-run — and over-run by a highly trained and well organised minority." Professor Vial-Mazel emphasised that much of the trouble boiling up in South-East Asia — and in Indo-China in particular — was emanating from the Russian Embassy at Bangkok, in Siam. The Soviet Government's embassy staff at Bangkok, said Professor Vial-Mazel, numbered approximately 200. The other embassies and consulates of the Western Powers carried only small staffs, but the Soviet Union — taking advantage of the large Communist following in Slam — had settled down in Bangkok with the purpose of making it a "nerve centre," by which to radiate its propaganda throughout the whole of South-East. It was the busiest embassy anywhere in the East.

The delay of the Democratic Powers in trying to counter some of the Communist expansion now creeping over South-East Asia was almost despairing, said Professor Vial-Mazel. Ho Chi Minh Credit:The Age Archives The Soviet Union had been otherwise. Not only had she unconstitutionally recognised the illegal republic of Ho Chin-minh, but, as a next step would probably propose the Vietnam Republic for membership to the United Nations. The whole thing was preposterous but that was the way the Kremlin worked — and succeeded. In his talks all the way through Australia he had emphasised wherever he went that Indo-China was the key political country of the moment in South-East Asia, and that if the Australian people had not heard much about it in recent months, they certainly would be hearing more about it in the near future. CAULDRON OF THE NEW ASIA

The Age Editorial Opinion published the following day, February 8, 1950. EVENTS and trends in Asia give grounds for grave concern to all who note the apparent eagerness of Moscow to “fish in troubled waters” from Pakistan to Korea. The picture given in these columns yesterday by Professor Georges Vial-Mazel is highly disturbing, and suggests that the Federated States of Indo-China may be destined for a role as dangerous and crucial as that which the country assumed when Japan secured access for advancing its preparations and mounting its 1942 offensives. Because of its situation bordering China, Siam and Burma, Indo-China is a “key" country in the vast turmoil, a ready-made bridgehead for Communist infiltration from China and the spread at rebellion and disorder. Unfortunately, as the political scene changes, the channels of communication are apt to become blocked. Since the overturn in China and elsewhere it has become increasingly hard to understand what is afoot in several countries of South-East Asia, over which the clouds are gathering. Organised means of information are lacking, and the difficulties of knowing what is happening are accentuated by local fighting, such as that in south China, or the obscure conflict in Indo-China between the Communist clique under Ho Chi-minh and the new regime under Emperor Bao Dal. How far the French would be prepared to go in putting down the pretensions of the Vietnam Republic by armed forces can be only a matter of conjecture. A highly complicating factor is Russia’s recognition of the Ho Chi-minh Government. Professor Vial-Mazel confirms that 125,000 troops are deployed in Indo-China to prevent the over-throw of the Bao Dai regime, and the turning of the whole country into a puppet of Soviet Russia. Many signs point to the conclusion that Russia “held,” or rebuffed, in Western Europe, has switched its proselytising activities to Asia, and intends to make, during 1950, a large-scale probe for weak spots wherever they can be found among the teeming millions of non-Communist Asia. Mass poverty, hunger, illiteracy, political inexperience and economic difficulties are fertile seed plots for Communism. There have been only fragmentary depictions of the immense changes in China, and only very slight glimpses of their effects. The basic facts are that the Communists have gained almost complete control, and that between the new Peking rulers and the organisers of world Communist moves in Moscow there is a close affinity.

In this confused welter of stresses, conflict, disorders and new threats, there seems to be no scope for U.N. intervention; no well-defined occasion to invoke any provisions of the charter to deal with a threat to peace. Nor is there any assurance that if any of the problems were brought before U.N., the atmosphere would be improved. A U.N. mission has been striving for a long time, without success, to effect a composition of the India-Pakistan dispute. Russia is said to have an embassy staff of 100 at Bangkok. Siam, disseminating propaganda and hatching conspiracies with disaffected groups in neighbouring areas. It is to be hoped that the conference under American auspices at Bangkok, and the renewed Commonwealth conference shortly to be held at Canberra, will lead to decisions calculated to make the picture in South-East Asia less disturbing. Although there seems little that Australia can do, it is essential that the Department of External Affairs keeps a close watch on what is going on, and gain as much insight as it can into the forces at work among peoples to our immediate north. Professor Vial-Mazel’s arresting statement shows how stresses are increasing in densely populated countries only a few hours' flight from our shores. We should not be so preoccupied with domestic, Imperial or European affairs as to be heedless of the menace of Communism just beyond our northern horizons.