ES News email The latest headlines in your inbox Enter your email address Continue Please enter an email address Email address is invalid Fill out this field Email address is invalid You already have an account. Please log in Register with your social account or click here to log in I would like to receive lunchtime headlines Monday - Friday plus breaking news alerts, by email Update newsletter preferences

Fourteen people in UK tested for coronavirus

More than a dozen people in the UK have now been tested for the coronavirus after an outbreak of the deadly disease in China.

Fourteen people were tested for the virus, with five confirmed negative and nine still awaiting results, Public Health England (PHE) said last night.

It came as Health Secretary Matt Hancock said there is an "increased likelihood" of cases occurring.

Some 25 people have died of the virus and there has been more than 800 cases reported in the past three weeks, including several outside of China.

US refuse extradition request for Harry Dunn suspect

An extradition request for the woman charged with causing the death of British teenager Harry Dunn has been turned down by the US.

US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo denied the request for Anne Sacoolas to be returned to the UK, the 19-year-old crash victim's family spokesman said.

The teenager was killed when his motorbike crashed into a car outside a US military base in Northamptonshire on August 27 last year.

Mrs Sacoolas, 42, was charged with causing his death by dangerous driving by the Crown Prosecution Service in December.

EU leaders set to sign-off on withdrawal deal

Boris Johnson’s Brexit deal will today be signed off by EU leaders as the UK’s divorce from Brussels is finalised before next week’s deadline.

The European Commission and European Council presidents are due to sign the Withdrawal Agreement later after it was given royal assent by the Queen.

It will still need to be approved by the European Parliament before Brexit day on January 31, with a vote expected two days before.

Impeachment prosecutors: No president has abused power like Trump

No US president has abused power the way Donald Trump did towards Ukraine, impeachment trial prosecutors have said.

In the second day of arguments at Mr Trump's trial in the Senate, Democrats focused on the first article of impeachment, abuse of power.

Mr Trump is accused of seeking a political investigation into 2020-presidential candidate Joe Biden from Ukraine for his own gain to sway the election.

Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said the nation's founders would be shocked by the president’s actions.

New Love Island arrivals sweep Jess and Siannise off on dates

Two new boys last night arrived in the Love Island villa and immediately swept Jess Gale and Siannise Fudge off on dates.

The public voted for Luke Mabbott and Luke Trotman to take them out after they were introduced to their fellow islanders.

Luke T will be going on his date with Siannise, while Luke M is heading out with Jess.

Before the Lukes arrived, Shaughna Phillips had told Siannise that "it's operation get you a new man!"

On this day...

1848: James Marshall discovered gold at Sutter's sawmill in California to spark the great Gold Rush.

1916: Conscription was introduced in Britain.

1935: Canned beer went on sale for the first time, made by Krueger brewery of Richmond, Virginia.

1976: Margaret Thatcher was dubbed The Iron Lady in the Soviet newspaper Red Star, after a speech about the Communist threat.

1986: Staff of The Sun and News of the World newspapers were told they were moving to London's Docklands - the start of a press exodus from Fleet Street.

1997: The Archers celebrated its 12,000th episode. The Radio 4 series drew an average 4.5 million listeners each week.