© Universal Images Group via Getty Images The Coronavirus superbug does not respond to antibiotics The HSE has confirmed that there is currently no cases of the killer coronavirus disease in Dublin hospitals following several reports of suspected cases.

Health officials around the world have been on high alerts as the new disease in China - which has flu like symptoms such as fever, coughing and shortness of breath - has already claimed the lives of 17 people as well as infected over 500.

The killer virus comes from the same family as SARS and has been identified by scientists with authorities in China working hard to contain the outbreak.

It is believed to have originated in the city of Wuhan just before Christmas but fears began to spread in Ireland when reports suggested that patients had been admitted to Dublin hospitals with symptoms similar to that of the deadly virus.

Reports circulating stated that a decontamination exercise was carried out on one patient at Dublin's Mater Hospital.

The patient in question had a fever and had returned from the Asian country recently but after an assessment it was found that she did not have traces of the coronavirus.

As well as this, there was also reports that suspected cases had been presented at St. Vincent's Hospital but there was also no confirmed cases of the deadly illness there.

Both of these hospitals were contacted by Dublin Live.

In a statement to Dublin Live, a spokesman for the HSE confirmed that there is currently no case of the superbug in either of these Dublin hospitals or in Ireland.

The spokesman said: "The HSE can confirm that there is no case of the coronavirus in either of these hospitals.

"A recent cluster of pneumonia cases associated with Wuhan, China, caused by a novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) have been reported.

"Cases have so far been confirmed in a number of countries including China, Thailand, Japan and South Korea but no case has been confirmed in Ireland.

"Health authorities continue to monitor the situation and are being advised by the World Health Organisation.

"Further information about the the coronavirus is available on the Health Protection and Surveillance Centre website at hpsc.ie."

What is coronavirus?

Coronaviruses are a group of viruses that cause respiratory infections. There are seven known strains that can infect humans, including the new virus detected in China.

They range in how serious they are, with some causing a common cold, and others causing pneumonia.

To date, the most famous coronavirus is the SARS virus, which has a mortality rate of between 9% and 50%, depending on the age of the patient.

Under a microscope, coronaviruses have a crown shape, which is where they get their name - 'corona' means crown in Latin.

What are the symptoms of the China coronavirus?

Health officials in China have reported that early symptoms of the new coronavirus include a high fever, shortness of breath, coughing and tightness of the chest.

It causes viral pneumonia, and in severe cases it has led to kidney failure and death.

People with weakened immune systems, babies and the elderly are particularly susceptible to coronaviruses.

Is it contagious?

While authorities initially believed that every single case of the new coronavirus was linked to the seafood market in Wuhan, China's National Health Commission has now confirmed that the disease can spread from person to person.

At least two people have caught the new coronavirus from family members, and it's believed that health workers have also been infected.

Coronaviruses are typically spread through the air, with infected people coughing or sneezing, or by close personal contact, such as shaking hands.

It's also possible to be infected by touching an object or surface with the virus on it, and then touching your mouth, nose or eyes before washing your hands.

Is it fatal?

Numerous people have died of the coronavirus, although most are thought to have had pre-existing medical conditions.

Over 500 have been infected.

Is there a treatment for coronavirus?

As the coronavirus is a virus, there is no treatment.

Patients can be given pain medication to relieve the symptoms, but the virus will not respond to antibiotics.

How far has coronavirus spread?

There are confirmed cases of the new coronavirus in Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the USA, all involving patients who have recently travelled to China.

MORE NEWS:

Man dies in tragic Cork farm accident 'after door on grain trailer falls on top of him' (Irish Mirror)