As Hong Kong treads gingerly in the grip of the coronavirus outbreak, with most avoiding going out and office staff told to work from home, negative sentiments against one group of people are more pronounced than ever.

The wariness of mainland Chinese comes against the backdrop of soaring numbers of infection across the border. As of Monday, more than 17,000 cases have been reported in mainland China, with over 360 deaths. Hong Kong recorded its 15th confirmed case on Sunday.

Analysts said while it was understandable that people would want to isolate themselves from mainlanders to reduce risks of infection, in Hong Kong, the situation had been politicised by government opponents.

Anti-mainland sentiments, simmering in recent years and brought to the fore in the ongoing protests sparked by the now-withdrawn extradition bill last June, have found new momentum amid the health crisis, seeding a fertile environment for full-blown xenophobia to take root in the city, some warned.

Embattled city leader Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, who earlier announced partial border closures with the mainland, is under immense pressure to roll out a complete shutdown. But she has so far rejected calls for this, saying it would be discriminatory.

“I hope that as the whole of society takes part in prevention of and fighting the disease, we can be tolerant ... rather than targeting or rejecting a particular group,” she said, citing the World Health Organisation’s position that draconian travel and trade restrictions were not necessary.

Tian Feilong, an associate professor at Beihang University’s law school in Beijing, lashed out at policymakers in Hong Kong in a commentary published on mainland news website guancha.cn on Thursday. He said city officials had put their own interests above the country’s.

“Hong Kong authorities are supposed to be accountable to both the city and Beijing, yet ... their logic has always been localist: ‘the burden is yours and the benefits are mine’,” he wrote.

“They are good at transferring their burden and pressure to the central government, and fighting for benefits and advantages for the city.”

Tian also said the localist mindset among Hong Kong people could stop the city from integrating with the new international order in which China was a major power.

“In terms of values, Hong Kong and Taiwan have been followers of the United States and Japan, but they lack [Washington’s and Tokyo’s] vision and wisdom in exchanges with [mainland] China.”

Hong Kong, however, is not alone in its instincts to distance itself from mainland Chinese. In Singapore, over Lunar New Year, online comments bordering on racism circulated about mainlanders’ propensity to eat “anything with four legs except the table”.

The jokes soon grew into policy calls similar to Hong Kong’s, with a petition in the Lion City on January 26 garnering more than 110,000 signatures on change.org. On Friday, Singapore became the next country after North Korea to close its borders to all new visitors from the mainland.

In Hong Kong, calls for a similar move are ongoing, with various groups within the medical sector voting to go on strike on Saturday evening, piling pressure on the government to yield.

Measures put into place so far include denial of entry to residents of Hubei, the province in which outbreak epicentre Wuhan city is located, health declaration forms for all incoming visitors, and an extension of the school break.

‘Avoiding Mandarin-speaking people’

But pan-democrats have called for more drastic moves, such as turning some of the barracks under the local garrison of the People’s Liberation Army into quarantine camps, rather than using newly built flats at Fai Ming public estate in the border town of Fanling.

Staging a protest outside the government’s headquarters on Friday, Democratic Party chairman Wu Chi-wai said: “As the Lunar New Year holiday comes to an end, hundreds of thousands of Hong Kong people could be returning. Apart from using more holiday resorts as quarantine camps, Lam must talk to the State Council about borrowing barracks.”

Asked if empty or occupied barracks should be used, Democrat lawmaker Helena Wong Pik-wan said the government should discuss with Beijing about temporarily moving some PLA soldiers across the border first, to free up some facilities for quarantine.

Story continues