Pakistan Zindabad slogan at Bengaluru anti-CAA event: Cops send notices to organisers

The Bengaluru Police has sent notices to the organisers of a rally where a young woman chanted "Pakistan Zindabad," multiple times on stage Thursday, and summoned them for questioning. A case under Sec124A (Offence of sedition) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Amulya shortly after she raised Pakistan Zindabad slogan at Asaduddin Owaisi's rally. The police are expected to interrogate her regarding the slogan. She will also be produced before a court after her interrogation. READ FULL REPORT

Not Shaheen Bagh, but different spot for talks: SC mediators say dialogue not possible at protest site

As talks between the Supreme Court-appointed interlocutors and Shaheen Bagh protesters over to vacate the road made little headway on Thursday, the third round is likely to be held at a different location on Friday. Sources have told India Today that mediators want a more 'neutral' location to hold talks with the Shaheen Bagh protesters with no media present. The location of the new venue for the third round of dialogue, however, is not yet known. READ FULL REPORT

Donald Trump says US could make tremendous India trade deal, but maintains: America first

Days ahead of his India visit, US President Donald Trump on Thursday said the two countries could make a "tremendous" trade deal. "We're going to India, and we may make a tremendous deal there," Trump said in his commencement address at the Hope for Prisoners Graduation Ceremony in Las Vegas. Trump, accompanied by First Lady Melania Trump, is scheduled to travel to Ahmedabad, Agra and New Delhi on February 24 and 25. Ahead of the visit, there have been talks about India and the United States agreeing on a trade package as a precursor to a major trade deal. READ FULL REPORT

As Japan coronavirus concerns grow, hundreds to leave quarantined cruise ship

Hundreds of Japanese and foreign passengers were set to disembark from a coronavirus-hit cruise ship near Tokyo on Friday amid growing disquiet in Japan about whether the government is doing enough to stop the virus spreading. The scheduled departure of more than 400 passengers from the Diamond Princess after weeks in quarantine comes as the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) issued a low-level travel advisory for Japan. Meanwhile some public gatherings in the country are being scrapped in a bid to contain the virus, which has killed more than 2,200 people in mainland China so far. READ FULL REPORT

China reports 889 new coronavirus cases, death toll passes 2,200

Mainland China had 889 new confirmed cases of coronavirus infections on Thursday, the National Health Commission said on Friday, up from 394 cases a day earlier. That brings the total accumulated number of confirmed cases in mainland China so far to 75,465. READ FULL REPORT