The health commission for Hubei said on Thursday that deaths in the province from the coronavirus had risen by 37 to 162, while a further 1032 cases had been detected, taking the total to 4586. Loading Replay Replay video Play video Play video The number of cases in mainland China is now more than 7000, with a death toll of 170. The number is still lower than the 348 people who died in China from SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome.) Yet scientists say there are still many questions to be answered about the new virus, including just how easily it spreads and how severe it is. The World Health Organisation's emergencies chief said on Wednesday China was taking "extraordinary measures in the face of an extraordinary challenge".

Dr Michael Ryan spoke at a news conference after returning from a trip to Beijing to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping and other senior government leaders. He said the epidemic remains centred in the city of Wuhan and in Hubei province but that "information is being updated and is changing by the hour". Dr Ryan said the few cases of human-to-human spread of the virus outside China - in Japan, Germany, Canada and Vietnam - were part of the reason the UN health agency's director-general has reconvened an expert committee to meet on Thursday. It will assess whether the outbreak should be declared a global emergency. Christmas Island In Australia, Opposition Leader Anthony Albanese blasted the Morrison government’s decision to send Australians caught up in the outbreak in China to Christmas Island to be quarantined for up to 14 days.

Mr Albanese suggested the government was using the island's detention centre out of "embarrassment", questioning whether the measure had been taken just "to be seen to be doing something at Christmas Island other than holding a press conference for Scott Morrison”. Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton defended the decision, which he said was based on advice from Australia's Chief Medical Officer Professor Brendan Murphy who was in daily contact with the WHO. Medical workers in protective gear transport a patient believed to be a confirmed case of the coronavirus. Credit:Bloomberg "The fact is we need to find a facility that can accommodate in the order of 500-660 people," Mr Dutton told Channel Nine’s Today show. To date, about 99 per cent of the nearly 6000 cases are in China. Dr Ryan estimated the death rate of the new virus at 2 per cent, but said the figure was very preliminary.

With fluctuating numbers, scientists are only able to produce a rough estimate of the fatality rate and it's likely many milder cases of the virus are being missed. In comparison, SARS killed about 10 per cent of people who caught it. The new virus is from the coronavirus family, which includes those that can cause the common cold as well as more serious illnesses such as SARS and MERS. Loading Replay Replay video Play video Play video

Dr Ryan noted there were several aspects of this outbreak that are extremely worrying, citing the spike in cases in China. He said while scientists believe the outbreak was sparked by an animal virus, it's unclear if there are other factors. Loading "Without understanding that, it's very hard to put into context the current transmission dynamics," Dr Ryan said. Meanwhile, countries began evacuating their citizens from the Chinese city hardest-hit by the virus. Chartered planes carrying about 200 evacuees each arrived in Japan and the United States early Wednesday as other countries planned similar measures from Wuhan, which has been shut down by authorities to try to contain the virus.