Sign up to FREE email alerts from Wales Online - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A heartbroken daughter says she is “tortured” by justice chiefs – after learning her mum's killer is set to be a free man again.

Shirley Oliver, 42, was beaten, strangled, stamped on and left for dead when she was attacked by two brothers in Cardiffin 2005.

Christopher Jones, now 36, and brother Stuart Jones, 46, were handed life sentences but given minimum terms of 13 and 15 years for the attack in Canton.

Christopher Jones was released two years ago but brother Stuart Jones has now been recommended for release by parole board chiefs.

Shirley’s daughter, Stephanie Davis, 36, said she learned of the news on February 5 – the 15th anniversary of her mum's murder.

“It is beyond belief and an insult to the grief we have been through as a family,” she said, speaking ahead of the 15th anniversary of her mum's death.

“Our day will be full of torture and pain and his will be one of celebration. My family has been destroyed and knowing he is going to be released on the actual day he took my mother’s life. How can this be allowed to happen?”

Shirley was killed after accepting a lift home from a nightclub from the brothers, believing she was safe. She got into a car with them and an argument broke out and she was strangled from behind while her hands were held down.

(Image: Wales News Service)

Stephanie said: “My mother knew these men. She made them tea and cooked dinner for them. They were not strangers she knew and trusted them like family.

“They gave her a lift because she had lost her partner and was going home – but she never saw home again.

“She was the most gentle sweet person. She wouldn’t harm a fly. I miss her every moment of the day, we all do.

“I wonder every day what her last thought was or if she was asking for help and I keep thinking how I wasn’t there to save her and that I will never get to tell her how she was the most beautiful mum in the world.”

(Image: Stephanie Davis)

Stephanie, from Cardiff, said she now lives in fear she will cross paths with her mum’s murderers.

She added: “My family has been ripped apart and our lives devastated forever because of what those monsters did to our mother.

“They strangled her and stamped on her body and murdered her in the most brutal and cruel way.

“I cannot imagine how much she suffered. Every year has been a struggle but we go on for mum.

“Knowing those two monsters are free in the world again devastates me.

“They may have finished their sentence but ours as a family will never, ever end because of them.

“My mother will never see her grandchildren or know she became a great-grandmother.

“I feel I should have got more justice for my mum – the system let me down and there was no support.

“I just can’t fight anymore though. I feel empty and I don’t know how to go forward. My mother was my best friend and because of them I will never see her again.”

At the time of Christopher Jones’ release the prison service said: “This was a tragic case and our deepest sympathies remain with the family and friends of Shirley Oliver.

“All offenders must meet strict criteria and pass a full risk assessment before being considered for day release and we’re legally obliged to ensure life sentence prisoners have the chance to demonstrate they’re safe for release.

“Over 99% of temporary releases are completed successfully and most failures do not involve offending.

“Those who break the rules of day release can spend a lot longer behind bars.”

A Ministry of Justice spokesman said on Wednesday: “The release of life-sentenced prisoners is a matter for the independent Parole Board.

“Once released these offenders will be on licence for life and if they fail to comply with strict conditions and supervision requirements they can be recalled to prison.”

It is believed that Stuart Jones currently remains behind bars, but will be released in the coming weeks. A parole board has "directed" his release - meaning they are giving him permission to leave prison and the decision is expected to be formally approved imminently.

Stuart Jones will still be on licence after his release from custody. However, he can recalled to prison if he does not comply with the terms of his release or commits any further offences.