Dr Sebastian Gorka worked as a Deputy Assistant to the US President in 2017 and was commenting on the killing of the elite Quds Force commander on January 3. In an exclusive interview with Express.co.uk, Dr Gorka argued that Mr Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran in 2015 released billions of US dollars to Iran, thereby enabling the regime to fund Soleimani’s activities across the Middle East. He explained: “Iran is the largest state-sponsor of terrorism in the world and has been for decades.

“As part of the disastrous JCPOA Iran deal, Obama released more than $140 billion dollars to the murderous Mullahs of Iran. “That emboldened the regime and helped fund Soleimani’s deadly covert operations against America and our allies.” Mr Obama agreed a deal with Iran in 2015 over its nuclear programme, which became known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). China, France, Russia, the UK and the EU were co-signatories to the deal, under the terms of which Iran consented to limit its sensitive nuclear activities and allow in international inspectors in return for the lifting of crippling economic sanctions.

World War 3: Barack Obama

World War 3: Donald Trump

As part of the deal Tehran regained access to its own assets, which had been frozen abroad, and as a result of which the Iranian regime received up to $150 billion. In addition, Tehran was paid $1.8 billion by the US Treasury, which was a repayment plus interest for the purchase of military equipment in the 1970s totalling $400 million that was never delivered to Iran due to the Iranian Revolution of 1979. In May 2018, Trump unilaterally pulled the US out of the agreement and re-imposed punitive sanctions on Iran. Dr Gorka, who is also host of the AMERICA First radio show, claimed that there had been “exquisite intelligence” that Soleimani was planning attacks against American interests and that he deserved to die. JUST IN: WW3 news: Is World War 3 about to happen?

World War 3: Donald Trump and Barack Obama

He told Express.co.uk: “This is the man who masterminded Iran’s terrorist attacks on six continents for the last three decades. “He deserved to die and he had to be killed right now given that the President just received ‘exquisite intelligence’ that Soleimani was planning multiple attacks in three countries that would have taken hundreds of more American lives.” The US President described Soleimani on Thursday as a “total monster”, whom should have been taken out long ago. In an interview with FOX News presenter Laura Ingraham that aired on Friday, Trump claimed that he ordered the strike against the Iranian general after receiving information that Tehran was planning to attack four US embassies. DON'T MISS World War 3: Iran's 'mock execution' torture on US embassy hostages [Latest]

Is Twitter banned in Iran? How rebels publicise their plight online [Update]

Terrifyingly simple way conflict between US and Iran could erupt [Analysis]

World War 3: Dr Sebastian Gorka

World War 3: Qasem Soleimani

The US President said: “I can reveal that I believe it probably would’ve been four embassies.” The President’s interview came as reports emerged that the US military launched an attack on another top Iranian official on the same day as it killed Soleimani. Abdul Reza Shahlai, a Yemen-based financial backer and high-ranking member of Iran’s Quds Force, was targeted in an unsuccessful airstrike.

World War 3: US-Iran Comparison

A senior US official told the Washington Post: “If we had killed him, we’d be bragging about it that same night.” Mr Shahlai is accused of directing attacks against U.S. and coalition forces in Iraq, as well as providing weapons and explosives to anti-US Shiite groups. He is also believed to be the mastermind behind both the 2007 attack against U.S. forces in Karbala, Iraq, that killed five service members, and the plot to assassinate the Saudi ambassador to the US at a restaurant in Washington DC in 2011.

World War 3: Donald and Melania Trump

Trending