Christopher Hanna was the night custodian and the 46-year-old Canton man was arrested in child pornography charges.

An overnight custodian with Akron Public Schools is facing federal child pornography charges, the school district announced Friday.

The employee has worked with APS since 2014 and was working at Miller South School of Visual and Performing Arts at the time of his arrest, the district said in a statement.

Federal court records list his name as Christopher Hanna of Canton. An FBI release listed him as 46 years old.

No one covers the city of Canton like we do >> Go here for blanket coverage of Canton

Hanna is charged in federal court with knowingly receiving and distributing child pornography.

The FBI release said he was arrested Thursday and held overnight in the Stark County Jail before a court appearance Friday morning. He was remanded and has a preliminary hearing Feb. 21 in federal court in Youngstown.

An affidavit filed in the case alleges Hanna sent pornographic images and videos depicting children to an undercover law enforcement agent.

The affidavit said Hanna talked online about being a middle school custodian and drilling holes in the wall between his office and the girls’ bathroom.

A district spokesman confirmed that possibility was investigated and it was "without foundation."

"The building has been thoroughly inspected," spokesman Mark Williamson said in an email.

The district’s statement said "all indications" from the FBI’s investigation showed the "alleged activities were limited to electronic transmissions (receiving and distributing materials electronically) and that no Miller South students were involved."

FBI agents executed a search warrant at Hanna’s home Thursday in Canton, the affidavit said. He was not under arrest at the time, but allegedly admitted to sending the images and told investigators "his interests were in young girls ages 9 and up."

The district notified parents of the arrest in a letter.

"FBI investigators believe the alleged incidents occurred on the employee’s personal time and not while at school or on APS computer equipment," the letter said.

The district is cooperating with the investigation, the statement said.

Hanna is on unpaid administrative leave