Chris Packham: 7.7 Billion People and Counting, BBC2, review: Not all - but mostly - doom and gloom

While a visibly fearful Packham presented the devastating facts about the world's overcrowding, there were glimmers of hope

By Adam Sweeting Tuesday, 21st January 2020, 10:00 pm Updated Wednesday, 22nd January 2020, 8:08 am

Christ Packham investigates the world's overcrowding problem (Photo: BBC)

Chris Packham: 7.7 Billion People and Counting, 9pm, BBC Two ★★★

The threat of climate change is endlessly discussed, but the ballooning growth of the world’s population may be the most critical issue facing humankind. Chris Packham certainly thinks so.

“It’s undeniably the elephant in the room,” he says, though lack of elephants is one of its many alarming symptoms – and in 7.7 Billion People and Counting, he showed us why.

i's TV newsletter: what you should watch next i's TV newsletter: what you should watch next Thanks for signing up! Sorry, there seem to be some issues. Please try again later. Submitting...

The Earth’s population is about 7.7 billion now and could reach 10 billion by 2050. Packham touched down in São Paolo, Brazil, where the population is five times greater than London’s and the inhabitants are having to pay to drill their own private wells to find a water supply. He visited formerly forested areas of Brazil where the natural animal and plant life has been obliterated to grow soya (to feed animals to provide more food for the expanding masses of people) or eucalyptus trees (imported from Australia to make toilet paper). In Lagos, he found a pop-up city built on mounds of compacted garbage, its two million inhabitants scratching out a nightmarish existence.

Packham often seems as if he’s slightly irritated at having to explain the obvious to a bunch of dunderheads. He talked about his experiences with Asperger’s in a previous documentary, and it is this, perhaps, that gives him a kind of tunnel vision which lets him cut to the core of an argument without worrying too much about crushing anybody’s toes. In one scene, he roped in his unfortunate father to illustrate how scientific progress isn’t always beneficial.

Chris Packham in Lagos, Nigeria where pop-up city is on mounds of compacted rubbish (Photo: BBC)

Medical advances have allowed Packham Snr to reach an age that wouldn’t have happened in previous centuries. This was “anti-nature”, Packham suggested, since evolution’s original plan was that people were supposed to die younger and be replaced by new generations. Now, the ever-ageing population is threatening economies, labour markets and healthcare systems.