One confirmed Coronavirus case in U.S, two with symptoms

There are new travel warnings as 33 million people in China are now in quarantine due to the mysterious Coronavirus.U.S. officials said Friday they are monitoring three possible cases of the deadly virus. A student at Tennessee Tech reported mild symptoms Thursday night and was being tested. A student at Texas A&M who just returned from China fell ill and went to the ER. Doctors said the mild symptoms were improving. The first confirmed case in the U.S. was a man in his 30s. He is being treated near Seattle in isolation in a bio-containment room.Dr. Nancy Messonnier, from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said, "The immediate risk to the American public is low, but the situation is evolving quickly and I do expect more cases in the United States."In just the last week, the virus, which triggers cold-like symptoms, has spread to 10 countries, sickening at least 830 people, leaving at least 25 dead. The majority of cases and deaths have been found in Wuhan. A travel ban remains in place in the city along with nine other nearby cities to try to contain the virus' spread.

There are new travel warnings as 33 million people in China are now in quarantine due to the mysterious Coronavirus.

U.S. officials said Friday they are monitoring three possible cases of the deadly virus.

Advertisement

A student at Tennessee Tech reported mild symptoms Thursday night and was being tested. A student at Texas A&M who just returned from China fell ill and went to the ER. Doctors said the mild symptoms were improving.

The first confirmed case in the U.S. was a man in his 30s. He is being treated near Seattle in isolation in a bio-containment room.

Dr. Nancy Messonnier, from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said, "The immediate risk to the American public is low, but the situation is evolving quickly and I do expect more cases in the United States."



In just the last week, the virus, which triggers cold-like symptoms, has spread to 10 countries, sickening at least 830 people, leaving at least 25 dead. The majority of cases and deaths have been found in Wuhan.

A travel ban remains in place in the city along with nine other nearby cities to try to contain the virus' spread.