WARNINGS were given back in 2017 that a deadly SARS-like virus could escape from lab in Wuhan set up to study some of the world’s deadliest diseases.

The coronavirus, which is similar to SARS, originated in the city and has now spread across the globe, killing 26 people and infecting at least 800 more.

6 Two researchers working at the National Bio-safety Laboratory in Wuhan Credit: Wuhan Virology Institute

6 The lab has strict rules to prevent any pathogens escaping Credit: Wuhan Virology Institute

As well as Wuhan, the Chinese authorities have quarantined nine other cities in Hubei province with total population of 33 million people as they desperately try to contain the virus.

Scientists outside China were concerned about pathogens escaping from the National Bio-safety Laboratory in Wuhan, Nature reported in 2017.

The SARS virus had already “escaped” several times from a lab in Beijing, according to the article.

The Wuhan lab was the first in China certified to study what are called BSL-4 pathogens, which can cause diseases such as Ebola and is one of 54 around the world.

But Tim Trevan, founder of CHROME Biosafety and Biosecurity Consulting in Damascus, Maryland, told Nature that an open culture is important to keeping BSL-4 labs safe.

He questioned how easy that would be to achieve in China, where he said society emphasises hierarchy.

SAFETY FEARS

“Diversity of viewpoint, flat structures where everyone feels free to speak up and openness of information are important,” he said.

The Wuhan National Biosafety Laboratory is about 20 miles from the city centre seafood market, where the coronavirus is thought to have originated.

Rutgers University microbiologist Dr Richard Ebright said “at this point there's no reason to harbour suspicions" that the facility had anything to do with the outbreak.

BSL-4 labs have strict rules about filtering and treating waste water before it leaves and all researchers are required to change clothes and shower before and after using facilities.

But the first lab of its kind built in Japan, in 1981, was dogged by safety concerns.

Nine people in the UK have been tested for the virus and a further 2000 people who arrived from Wuhan are also being sought.

As well as Wuhan, the Chinese authorities have quarantined nine other cities in Hubei province with total population of 33 million people as they desperately try to contain the virus.

A 1000 bed hospital dedicated to patients infected is also being built as existing ones struggle to cope with the numbers and is modelled on the Xiaotangshan hospital built in Beijing to cope with the SARS outbreak of 2003.

There are fears that it could accelerate further with millions travelling for Chinese New Year celebrations.

But the World Health Organisation last night refused to declare a global public health emergency, saying it was “too early”.

most read in world news VIRUS CRISIS Coronavirus infects 209 in UK as ministers warn death toll could hit 100,000 Exclusive ON THE MEND BA stewardess badly hurt in car crash that killed three pals wakes from coma Live Blog MONEY PROBLEMS Deadly coronavirus can be spread by using paper money FINAL SALUTE Meg & Harry given standing ovation at concert in one of last royal engagements QUEUE CHAOS Shoppers pile trolleys with toilet roll as they flood checkout over virus fears Exclusive 'TICKING TIME-BOMB' Coronavirus could force thousands of small businesses to go bust

At least eight hospitals in Wuhan issued public calls for donations of masks, googles, gowns and other protective medical gear.

Shocking images from Wuhan show residents lying lifeless on the ground in a city that had become dubbed “zombieland” by desperate locals.

Harrowing pictures on social media show people collapsed on the street and in hospital waiting rooms.

6 A health worker watches restricted section of the newly built 1000 bed SARS hospital in Xiaotangshan hospital Credit: Getty Images - Getty

6 Work has begun building a 1000 bed hospital as existing ones struggle to cope Credit: AP:Associated Press

6 Patients queue up to seek treatment in Wuhan Tongji Hospital Fever Clinic in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak Credit: EPA

6 Emergency services wearing masks and protective clothing tend to an individual who appeared to collapse on the street Credit: Instagram