A wannabe rapper has now got his wish for 15 minutes of fame. But it comes with a catch: criminal charges.

James Potok, a 28-year-old from Thornhill, was arrested Monday afternoon and charged with mischief and breach of recognizance following a bizarre prank that the man says was designed to get him online attention.

Potok was on a WestJet flight heading to Jamaica when he stood up, wearing a face mask, and made a scene of claiming he’d recently been to Wuhan, implying he was sick with the novel coronavirus that’s making headlines.

The pilots turned the plane around and back to Toronto’s Pearson airport, where paramedics and law enforcement were waiting.

The man — an aspiring rapper — was quick to speak out and explain his antics.

“I was looking to get a viral video,” Potok told Global News. “I was looking to get it up on all the social media platforms. It seemed to me like this was in poor taste, in retrospect.”

No kidding. Not just in poor taste, but a very serious health hoax.

The passengers on the Canadian chartered flight returning from Wuhan will be quarantined for two weeks. A couple of cruise ships have been likewise quarantined following cases discovered on board.

This one was no mere gag and it’s right that charges be laid, but Potok’s claim that this was for online attention appears to be a troubling trend.

On Tuesday, the infamous Chair Girl made one of her latest court appearances in advance of her upcoming sentencing hearing.

Marcella Zoia, 20, has pleaded guilty to one count of causing danger to life after a video went viral of her throwing a folding chair off of a downtown Toronto balcony and down onto the road below.

Luckily, no one was hurt — but they could have been.

Zoia was looking right into the camera for the video, seemingly keen for her antics to be caught on film. Her social media profiles make it clear she craves online attention.

It’s a sad sign of the times that people are so desperate for fame and attention on Instagram and elsewhere that they’re increasingly resorting to desperate — and even illegal — measures.

Time to grow up.