LOS ANGELES, CA — A traveler landing at Los Angeles International Airport was hospitalized overnight after exhibiting symptoms consistent with the deadly Wuhan coronavirus outbreak in China.

Health authorities screening travelers were not immediately able to confirm whether the traveler, who flew in on American Airlines flight 2546 from Mexico City with family, was infected with the coronavirus, NBC reported. The patient was hospitalized as a precautionary measure amid efforts to stave off an outbreak in the United States.

The outbreak of the deadly flu-like disease has spread quickly in the Wuhan region of China, claiming at least 17 lives there. Authorities in Los Angeles said Wednesday that it's likely a matter of time before the virus arrives in California given the sheer volume of travel between China and Los Angeles.

The first case of coronavirus was confirmed Wednesday in Washington State. That patient, a Washington resident in his 30s, appeared to be in good condition, NBC reported.

The coronavirus stems from a growing outbreak in China where at least 440 infections have been confirmed. Officials there have shut down entire cities to contain the outbreak, and health officials worldwide have been screening travelers at major airports.

Little is known about the coronavirus. According to the CDC, most infected experience mild flu-like symptoms, and it appears that infections can spread from animals to people and from person to person. Illnesses have now been confirmed in several countries including China, Thailand, Japan, South Korea and the U.S.

Los Angeles health officials cautioned against panic, however.

"Many people travel. ... We don't want people saying, 'Oh you've been to China. You can't come to school or work,"' said Dr. Sharon Balter, the county Department of Public Health's director of acute communicable disease control. "We don't want that. I think part of the reason we're talking right now is to say these are the things we're doing to get ready. If there is a case in L.A. County, we are prepared to react and this is how we'll do it."

Barbara Ferrer, director of the Department of Public Health, also insisted that just because someone may have visited China — or even the Chinese city of Wuhan, where the outbreak is centered — it does not mean the person presents a health risk.

"There is no need to exclude from the public any folks who have traveled to and from Wuhan city unless they're symptomatic," Ferrer said. "I know concerns have been raised about whether people need to be isolated during what's an unknown incubation period, but at this point the guidance is clear that unless you're symptomatic you should continue with your daily activities."

City News Service contributed to this report.

