Professor Murphy said passengers had been tested four times for the virus and all remained clinically well. Loading The death toll in mainland China from coronavirus has risen by 81 to 813 in the latest figures, passing the 774 deaths recorded globally during the 2002-2003 pandemic of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). There have been 15 cases of coronavirus in Australia according to the Health Department: five in Queensland, four in New South Wales, four in Victoria, and two in South Australia. "We've had no more cases detected, which is good," Professor Murphy said.

All of the Australian cases were contracted in Wuhan, except one NSW patient who caught the virus elsewhere in China from another person who had previously visited the city. The patients remain in a stable condition. Passengers on sunday's chartered Qantas flight arrived at Darwin's RAAF base and were taken by bus to the Manigurr-Ma work camp at Howard Springs, where they will spend the next 14 days. The camp, 30 kilometres from Darwin, is a former mining site that is no longer in operation and will be used as the location to monitor evacuees for coronavirus. Professor Murphy said he had personally inspected the site at Howard Springs and was “absolutely confident all precautions have been taken so there’s no risk to the community”.

He said if a case was discovered in the quarantine camp, the person would be taken to a Darwin hospital and placed in isolation. Wuhan evacuees now in the Northern Territory were initially expected to be quarantined on Christmas Island, before a decision was made on Friday to bring them to the former Inpex mining site. Loading Replay Replay video Play video Play video The Qantas plane was originally scheduled to leave Wuhan on Friday night but did not get clearance to land from Chinese authorities and spent Saturday waiting in Hong Kong. The complex operation comes as the government hopes for a "breakthrough" on coronavirus in a matter of weeks to avoid staring down a multi-billion dollar impact on the economy, including tertiary education.