The raging coronavirus epidemic has taken a terrible toll on frontline health workers, infecting 1,716 and killing six, with numbers set to rise, a senior Chinese official revealed on Friday. The stark admission by Zeng Yixin, China’s National Health Commission vice minister, comes amid repeated calls from hospitals for more protective equipment, including face masks, particularly in the epidemic’s epicentre, Hubei province in central China. The devastating figure follows a public outpouring of grief over the death of the doctor Li Wenliang, 34, who had been reprimanded and silenced by police after he warned colleagues over social media to be careful of a dangerous new virus he had seen in a hospital in Wuhan, a city of 11 million that is now quarantined. His death unleashed an unprecedented wave of public anger on Chinese social media, with 10 academics in Wuhan circulating an open letter calling for political reform and freedom of speech. The majority of medical staff – 1,102 - have been diagnosed with the virus, now known as Covid-19, in Wuhan itself, where doctors have been forced to resort to using the same equipment due to shortages in masks and body suits. Another 400 have been infected elsewhere in Hubei province.

A Wuhan resident puts on protective gear to deliver food to construction workers building a hospital Credit : Chen Hui/Reuters

On Friday, China revised the total number of deaths from the respiratory disease down by 108, citing a double-count in Hubei. The overall death toll now stands at 1,380 and infections have topped 64,000. More than 5,000 new cases were reported on Friday, dampening hopes that the virus will soon be contained and leading to calls from senior officials to step up quarantine measures similar to the draconian lockdown of Wuhan. The fluctuations in China’s official figures, including a huge leap in numbers after clinical diagnostic methods were altered mid-week, has heightened concerns about Beijing’s handling of the crisis and the accuracy of vital data. “We thought there was better transparency coming out of China, but it doesn’t appear to be,” Larry Kudlow, director of the US National Economic Council, told reporters at the White House Thursday. Mr Kudlow expressed Washington’s displeasure that American health experts had not been granted access to help fight the virus on the ground. “We don’t know if it’s contained in China. We thought they were tailing off in their headcount. It turns out that might not be the case,” Mr Kudlow said. “On this particular matter, we are quite disappointed in China’s response.”

On board the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Yokohama, Japan, which is now the source of the biggest cluster of cases outside of mainland China, the strain on trapped passengers enduring a 14-day quarantine in their cabins was beginning to show on Friday. Some 218 passengers have so far tested positive for the virus which was reportedly first transmitted by a man from Hong Kong. The quarantine is set to end on February 19 but the Japanese government has now made plans to allow healthy elderly passengers to wait out the period on shore. British pensioner David Abel, 74, who has been entertaining thousands with his upbeat daily Facebook broadcasts from his cabin, issued an unusually emotional plea for entrepreneur Richard Branson to help evacuate British holidaymakers by private jet to Brize Norton to be quarantined at home.

David Abel, trapped on board the Diamond Princess issued an emotional appeal for evacuation on Friday

“We will find a way to pay for the plane,” he said, adding that passengers were in a “bad way” and becoming “desperate.” “I wanted to be upbeat and positive but we’ve had enough,” he said, offering Mr Branson a half bottle of Talisker Scotch whisky. “People are going through hell.” The “staunch Tory” said he had no confidence in Boris Johnson, the prime minister, to help them as he was too focused on Brexit. Mr Abel also revealed that Alan Steele, a fellow British traveller who was removed from the ship after being diagnosed with the disease last week, was “on a downer” and refusing to allow Japanese doctors to enter his hospital room as he had no faith in their testing methods. “He just wants to get out and get home and get it sorted in the UK,” he said. The high number of cases on the ship has given Japan an overall total of 254 and death and the nation’s health ministry has vowed to step up containment measures after a woman in her 80s died from the disease. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, the prime minister said that his government has established a specific task force with a budget of £71.9 million.

The Diamond Princess is under 14 days of quarantine Credit : The Asahi Shimbun