The Government of Canada is also warning travellers that they should avoid all 'non-essential travel' to China in a recent travel advisory due to an outbreak of a novel coronavirus.

The World Health Organization declared the outbreak sparked by a new virus in China that has been exported to more than a dozen countries as a global emergency Thursday after the number of cases spiked more than tenfold in a week.

Earlier this week, Provincial Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry confirmed B.C.'s first novel coronavirus case. A man in his 40s who lives in the Vancouver Coastal Health region and recently returned from a trip to Wuhan, China.

The Government of Canada is also warning travellers that they should avoid all 'non-essential travel' to China in a recent travel advisory due to an outbreak of a novel coronavirus.

Now, the John Hopkins University's Center for Systems Science and Engineering has developed an interactive map that displays new confirmed cases of coronavirus around the world.

In total, the map shows that Mainland China has the lion's share of confirmed cases (8,124), as of Jan. 30 at 11 a.m. EST.

The map shows that there have been a staggering 4,903 confirmed cases and 162 deaths in Mainland China's Hubei Province. As a result, Canadians have been warned to avoid all travel to China's Hubei Province, including the cities of Wuhan, Huanggang and Ezhou, due to the imposition of heavy travel restrictions in order to limit the spread of a novel coronavirus.

Zhejiang Province has the second most confirmed cases (428). However, there have been zero reported deaths. Guangdong Province has 354 cases, with zero deaths.

Following China, the map shows that there have been 14 confirmed cases of coronavirus in Thailand. Japan has third highest number of confirmed cases, with 11. Hong Kong and Singapore each have 10, while Austraila and Taiwan each have 9.

The map also includes the confirmed case in Vancouver, as well as one in Toronto.

You can view the map here.