China is expelling three Wall Street Journal reporters, accusing the newspaper of publishing a racist headline about the country's battle with coronavirus.

On February 3, the Journal had published an op-ed by a foreign-affairs academic titled "China Is the Real Sick Man of Asia."

The "sick man of Asia" is a 19th-century term that referred to a time when China was internally divided and exploited by foreign powers — a period that still deeply humiliates the country's leadership.

And on Wednesday, China's foreign ministry gave deputy bureau chief Josh Chin, reporter Chao Deng, and reporter Philip Wen five days to leave China.

The expulsions come amid high tensions between the US and Chinese media. On Tuesday, the US labeled China's five largest news outlets as government operatives.

China has refused to renew visas for US news reporters for publishing negative coverage in the past.

Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.

China is deporting three Wall Street Journal reporters after the newspaper published a headline about the novel coronavirus that invoked a humiliating time in the country's history.

Deputy Bureau Chief Josh Chin, reporter Chao Deng, and reporter Philip Wen were given five days to leave China by the Foreign Ministry on Wednesday, according to The Journal.

The expulsions were a direct result of a February 3 op-ed titled "China Is the Real Sick Man of Asia," in which foreign-affairs academic Walter Russell Mead wrote that China was struggling to control the coronavirus outbreak, and could suffer economic downfall as a result.

A man wears a mask while walking in the street in Wuhan, the epicenter of the novel coronavirus in China. More

Getty

The headline prompted widespread criticism — including in comments published by The Journal itself — that the headline was "derogatory" and "discriminatory."

The Chinese government called it "racist."

"The Chinese people do not welcome media that publish racist statements and maliciously attacks China," foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told reporters on Wednesday, according to Reuters.

"In light of this, China has decided to revoke the press cards of the three Wall Street Journal correspondents in Beijing starting today."

The state-run Global Times tabloid also cited Chinese foreign ministry calling it a "racist headline."

The opinion and news-reporting sections are typically kept separate in American media outlets.

William Lewis, CEO of Dow Jones and publisher of the Journal said: "We are deeply disappointed with today's announcement from China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs to expel three Wall Street Journal news reporters."

"This opinion piece was published independently from the WSJ newsroom and none of the journalists being expelled had any involvement with it."

"We enforce a complete separation between our News and Opinion departments," he said.

Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Beijing in March 2017. More

AP Photo/Mark Schiefelbein

The phrase "sick man of Asia" is generally used to describe China's domestic and foreign affairs in the late 19th and early 20th century, when it was internally divided, exploited by colonial powers like Japan, and struggling in the aftermath of the Opium War.

It was a period that continues to deeply humiliate the country's ruling Communist Party.

The phrase is a spin off of the term "sick man of Europe," a moniker for the declining Ottoman Empire in the 1850s but has since been applied to a number of European countries experiencing a downturn in fortunes.