The killer coronavirus rapidly sweeping the world could be caught through the eyes, scientists have today warned.

Chinese doctor Wang Guangfa fears he may have contracted the SARS-like infection because he wasn't wearing protective goggles.

Leading experts confirmed it is 'absolutely possible', saying the virus can enter the eyes by touching them – if it is on a patient's hands.

And they even warned the virus – thought to be spread through sneezes and coughs – can roam through the body to reach the eye.

Twenty-six patients have died in the coronavirus outbreak in China, which has struck down more than 900 people and spread as far as the US.

Wang Guangfa has been infected with the new virus in China after being part of a team of doctors investigating it in Wuhan, where the virus emerged

Dr Guangfa heads the department of pulmonary medicine at Beijing's Peking University First Hospital (pictured)

Chinese authorities say 26 people have died and now more than 900 people caught the killer infection across the world, with cases cropping up in the US, Vietnam and Singapore

Paul Kellam, professor of virus genomics at Imperial College London, said this is 'absolutely possible'.

'If you have droplets sneezed at you, they will wash from your eye to your nose,' he told MailOnline. 'Your eye connects to your nose through the lacrimal duct.

'If you suffer from allergies and if your eyes run, so will your nose. Or if you put medication in your eyes, you’ll taste at the back of your throat.

'It isn’t unusual for flu and other viruses to be transmitted this way. You can also get respiratory infections through the eye.'

Professor Kellam said it is for this reason healthcare workers must wear eye protection.

And even though face masks that protect the mouth and nose are effective, they clearly 'won't protect the eyes'.

Leading experts have today confirmed it is 'absolutely possible' it could be spread through the eyes, saying the virus can enter the eyes by touching them – if it is on a patient's hands

And they even warned the virus – thought to be spread through sneezes and coughs – can roam through the body to reach the eye

Dr Michael Head, senior research fellow in global health at the University of Southampton, backed up Professor Kellam's claim.

He told MailOnline: 'Transmission would potentially be by touching the eye so the virus is on the hand, which then makes it easy to spread from one person to another.

'Think of it like the common cold or the flu, touching nose/mouth/eyes is a way to spread them.'

Dr Guangfa heads the department of pulmonary medicine at Beijing's Peking University First Hospital.

He was part of a team of experts that earlier this month visited Wuhan, where the virus first emerged.

'I was diagnosed and my condition is fine,' he told Kong's Cable TV on Tuesday. He said he was going to receive an injection - but did offer any more details.

Medical staff work in the ICU (intensive care unit) of Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University in Wuhan

Hazmat-clad medics transfer a patient who is on the mend out of the ICU (intensive care unit) of Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan

The coronavirus has so far claimed the lives of 26 people - all in China - and infected more than 900 in 10 different countries.

The World Health Organisation last night stopped short of declaring it a ‘global health emergency’, but said there was no doubt it ‘may yet become one’.

The virus – previously unknown to science – first appeared in Wuhan last month. It originated in a meat market and scientists believe it 'jumped the species barrier' from snakes, which may have been on sale illegally, to humans.

Symptoms begin with a fever, a dry cough and sneezing. This is followed by shortness of breath about a week later, which can develop into pneumonia.