Indonesia’s detection systems have come under fire from experts, concerned that the nation’s ability to test for the novel coronavirus is inadequate.

According to reports from the Sydney Morning Herald and The Age, Indonesian medical labs are still lacking the testing kits needed to rapidly test for the coronavirus.

Professor Amin Soebandrio, one of the leading molecular biologists, confirmed to the media outlet that the specific chemicals used in testing kits to help analyse and identify the coronavirus are not yet available in the country.

The components needed are expected to arrive in Indonesia within the next few days.

Given Indonesia’s proximity to Australian shores, the nation’s sub-par systems could boost the number of undiagnosed cases seen in Australia.

RELATED: Coronavirus: What we know, how it’s spread

RELATED: All Australian coronavirus cases confirmed

While there have still been no confirmed cases in Indonesia, experts are concerned that the inability to identify an infection immediately would open a small window of opportunity for the virus to rapidly spread.

Professor Amin speculated that it was possible the novel coronavirus was present but undetected in Indonesia, placing nearby Singapore, Malaysia and Australia at greater risk.

“If you ask if it’s possible, of course there is a possibility but we don’t have evidence yet. Currently, we don’t know if the virus has entered Indonesia or not,” he said.

media_camera A health official checks the body temperature of a worker at PT Indonesia Morowali Industrial Park. More than 40,000 workers at a vast Chinese-controlled industrial complex in Indonesia have been quarantined over fears about the spread of a deadly coronavirus strain. Picture: STR/AFP.

At a press conference on Thursday, the Director-General for Indonesia’s Health Ministry’s Disease Prevention and Control unit, Anung Sugihantono, said 16 people had been under surveillance by health authorities and eight remained under monitoring.

The suspected cases have been in Jakarta, Bali, Manado and Sorong.

media_camera Indonesian health officials concerned the country’s testing kits are lacking, placing neighbouring countries at risk. Picture: Perdiansyah/AFP.

media_camera Chinese tourists arriving from Nusa Penida at the fast boat pier in Serangan island in Denpasar, on Indonesia's resort island of Bali. Picture: Sonny Tumbelaka/AFP.

On international fronts, Chinese authorities have suspended air, road, and rail travel in the area around Wuhan – thought to be the epicentre of China’s coronavirus outbreak – and the larger Hubei Province.

Since its inception, the virus has now spread to 19 countries and counting.

On Thursday, the number of coronavirus infections surpassed the total number SARS cases reported in China during the most contagious and deadly nine-month first phase of that 2002-2003 epidemic.

The coronavirus has infected almost 11,000 people globally in just two months, a troublesome sign that prompted the World Health Organisation to declare the outbreak a global emergency on Friday.

The death toll currently stands at 259, with the majority of fatalities occurring in China.

Originally published as Fears over ‘inadequate’ virus detection