HSE chiefs have warned that there is a "moderate risk" of a coronavirus outbreak in Ireland.

The deadly ‘snake flu’ that originated in Wuhan, China, has already killed more than 170 people and infected more than 7,700.

1 HSE chiefs have warned there is a moderate chance of a coronavirus outbreak in Ireland Credit: Alamy

The Director of the Health Protection Surveillance Centre, Dr John Cuddihy, said those who think they may have the virus should ring their doctor.

He explained: "We've emphasised that people should phone their GP first to talk to them, rather than arriving at the GP surgery.

"We give that same advice to people who have influenza generally, that they phone.

"Rather than turning up and accidentally put other patients in the waiting room at risk.

"Should that arise, the GP will advise over the phone the next steps."

Cuddihy said that there have been no confirmed cases in the country.

He said: "Currently there are no confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus in Ireland and therefore you're extremely unlikely to catch novel coronavirus from somebody in Ireland.

"If there were to be a case in Ireland in the future, healthcare professionals will contact anyone who has been in close contact with the infected case and advise them.

ADVICE FROM HSE ON WHAT TO DO IF YOU GET SICK If you become unwell especially with respiratory symptoms (temperature, cough, or breathing difficulties) within 14 days of returning from Wuhan, Hubei province, phone your GP and mention your related concerns which may include:

symptoms of influenza-like illness and

history of travel to Wuhan, Hubei province within 14 day s or

having been in close contact with someone who had the 2019-nCoV infection

PHONE your GP first and talk to them rather than arriving at the Gp's surgery, so that you don't put staff or other patients accidentally at risk. Your GP will advise you over the phone on the next steps.

MOST READ IN NEWS new cases Two more patients test positive for Covid-19 bringing total number of cases to 21 wet & windy Rainfall warning put in place for county as wintry showers expected next week BIZ HIT Owner of one of Ireland’s busiest pubs says Covid-19 fears are battering business Latest ROAD CRASH Woman, 40s, killed in horror crash in Killarney, Co Kerry and another critical CELEBRATIONS AXED Towns cancel St Patrick's Day parades as Covid-19 cases count rises to 18 CASH BLING Gardai reveal young yobs working for gangs are easily spotted in flashy clothes

The Director of the HSBC said people should avoid non-essential travel to China.

He also explained that there are no specific treatments for the virus and that symptoms instead would be treated.

Dr Cuddihy added: "The likely hood of infection for EU/EEA citizens residing in Wuhan is moderate and in relation to case importation to Europe, they have also classified it as moderate."