Seven people had mysteriously fallen ill. Test results showed a coronavirus infection, similar to the bug behind Sars, an outbreak that originated in China and killed 800 people nearly two decades ago. So Dr Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist, warned his medical school classmates on December 30 in a group chat about the patients in his hospital. “Quarantined in the emergency department,” he wrote. “Everybody please be careful.” “How scary,” one person replied. That night, Dr Li was summoned by local health authorities demanding to know his source of information and whether he had “realised” his mistake. Within days, local police were at his door, accusing him of “spreading rumours.” Officers forced him to sign a statement attesting to his “illegal activity,” warning that if it continued, there would be legal consequences. "I never dealt with the police before,” Dr Li, 34, later told Caixin, a Chinese media outlet. “I was worried that I could not leave without signing the statement, so I just went through the process and signed." As he was reprimanded by police, the Chinese government quietly announced that it was investigating a novel coronavirus outbreak – on December 31, as the world was busy celebrating the end of a decade.

Doctor Li Wenliang warned about the novel outbreak but was summoned by police and admonished him for making false comments Credit : Getty

Six weeks have passed since then, and the deadly coronavirus shows no sign of slowing, infecting 31,500 people globally and killing 640. Cases have been confirmed in 26 countries. China is embroiled in a national crisis that poses a serious challenge to the authority of Xi Jinping, the leader of the ruling Chinese Communist Party. And Dr Li, who tried to warn the world of what was coming, died Thursday after contracting a coronavirus infection. Evidence is mounting of a botched initial response by the government in the first weeks of the outbreak, when the authorities silenced many like Dr Li, a move experts say likely exacerbated disease spread. Rather than cautioning the public in Wuhan – the epicentre of the outbreak, and where Dr Li worked – Chinese authorities downplayed dangers and instead hosted lavish Chinese New Year banquets with hundreds of people. At the time, the mayor of Wuhan, Zhou Xianwang, made no public mention of a health crisis brewing, instead touting his vision for modernising the city’s medical infrastructure. Local authorities also quickly sanitised a seafood market believed to be the source of the outbreak, leaving little for scientists looking to pinpoint how the virus was transmitted to humans, a key piece of information that could inform prevention and treatment. Chinese scientists managed, however, to sequence the virus’s genetic makeup in record time by January 7, sharing it in a public database for other experts to review. Still, authorities said little – there was impetus to stay silent, as officials prepared to host their annual local meetings in January. For the ruling Party, stability is always the priority around key political events. Plus, reporting problems to senior officials could mean lower cadres lose out on a promotion. While officials convened, local health authorities repeatedly reassured there were no new cases, saying less than 50 were infected. It wasn’t until after the congresses adjourned on January 17 that the reported numbers began to spike.

“Either they were too busy meeting, or there was a deliberate decision not to release cases until after the meeting was completed,” said Dali Yang, a professor and expert on Chinese politics at the University of Chicago. “Ahead of the meeting, they want to project the air that everything is all right...which of course was a disaster,” said Mr Yang. “Precious time was wasted.” By then, hospitals in Wuhan had been in a frenzy for weeks and were already running short of patient beds. Resident Chen Min, 65, was one of many turned away, who first developed a fever and cough on January 6. Doctors at three hospitals diagnosed her with a cold and packed her off with basic medicine. Even after a CT scan showed shadows in her lungs and doctors admitted she needed further treatment, they still told her to go home – there were no spare beds. Ms Chen was in critical condition by the time she was finally placed in isolation on January 15, dying hours later. Because she was never tested for the coronavirus, her death wasn’t included in the government’s official count. Doctors, however, told her family that she had “that” type of pneumonia, “highly likely” from a coronavirus infection, and pressed for a quick cremation to get rid of her infectious corpse. “What if there are carriers of the new coronavirus among patients with fevers, and many of them are just sent back home every day?” Kyle Hui, 40, Ms Chen’s stepson, told the Telegraph. “That will only cause the virus to spread even more.”

Workers in protective suits spray disinfectant on a woman as she arrives at a hotel being used for people held in medical isolation in Wuhan Credit : Chinatopix

Dr Li, who was back at work after his police run-in, developed a cough on January 10 – contracted from an infected patient he treated for glaucoma. Fever set in the next day. The following day, as the first case outside China emerged in Thailand, he was admitted to the hospital from where he posted online: “I am curious why they haven’t announced that there is human-to-human transmission, and that medical staff have been infected.” More than a week after on January 20, China at last confirmed human-to-human transmission was possible, admitting that patients had infected family members and medical workers. Mr Xi, returning from a state visit to Myanmar, made his first public remarks about the outbreak, saying it was “extremely crucial” for “all-out” efforts to curb disease spread. Three days later, China locked down Wuhan, cutting travel links and placing the entire city under quarantine. The shutdown later spread across the entire province of Hubei where Wuhan is located, even affecting cities in neighbouring Zhejiang province. Experts, however, said it was too little, too late, as millions had already travelled from the outbreak epicentre to other parts of China ahead of the Chinese New Year holiday. It didn’t help that authorities had banned doctors from speaking to media, and rail employees from wearing face masks – efforts apparently aimed at curbing mass panic, even as deaths hit hundreds. Right on cue, cases began to pop up across the country, affecting every province. With numbers ticking up, fear spread as people began to realise the severity of the situation. Residents cleared shop shelves of face masks and antimicrobial products of every kind – hand gel, soap, wipes, cleaning products. Stores as far away as the US were mobbed as people rushed to buy supplies for friends and family in China. Even Amazon ran out. China’s efforts in recent days to sell its unprecedented emergency response as effective have so far fallen flat. Foreign countries finding infected patients ashore closed their borders and cancelled flights. Some nations have done so as a protective measure.