Locals wait to buy face masks in Hong Kong, on Feb. 5, 2020. (AP Photo/Vincent Yu)

HONG KONG (Kyodo) -- A woman who traveled with her husband to Japan last week has become the latest confirmed new coronavirus infection case in Hong Kong, health authorities said Thursday, a day after the husband also tested positive.

The couple, who had visited the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen for work last month, were in Tokyo between Jan. 28 and Feb 1. They fell ill while there and returned home Saturday on Hong Kong Express flight UO561.

They sought medical treatment at a hospital the next day but were turned away. The man's condition worsened and he was hospitalized Tuesday. He was tested positive to the virus Wednesday, when his wife also checked herself into the hospital.

"We will trace their close contacts, also the flight passengers (for possible infection)," said Cheung Shuk-kwan, head of the Communicable Disease Branch of the Center for Health Protection.

Cheung conceded that surveillance of suspected infection cases is difficult due to the subtle expression of symptoms.

"If it were not for the man's travel history in Shenzhen, he would not have been brought under surveillance (and tested for the virus), and the woman's case would not have also been found," she said.

The two were confirmed to be the territory's 21st and 22nd new coronavirus cases. Of the total cases, one patient died, two remained in critical condition and the rest were stable.

"There are six family clusters among all cases. Either they are husbands and wives, or parents and children. That means the disease is contagious among close family members," Cheung said.

She added that at least three cases had no travel history in the last 14 days before they fell ill and are believed to be local transmission cases.

"This is worrying as local transmission of the disease has become more rampant," she said.

Meanwhile, the cruise ship World Dream, with 3,600 travelers and crew members, has docked in Hong Kong after drawing concerns that it carried in a previous tour eight Chinese travelers infected with the virus. It is still undergoing inspection and quarantine procedures.

Cheung said at least one crew member fell ill and was sent to hospital for tests and treatment.

Starting Saturday, all incoming travelers having visited mainland China will be subject to a 14-day mandatory quarantine, but the government has yet to reveal details of the arrangement.