A novel coronavirus outbreak (2019-nCoV) has caused thousands of illnesses worldwide and nearly 200 deaths in China.

Chinese health minister Ma Xiaowei told reporters earlier this week that people with novel coronavirus may be able to spread the illness before they even develop symptoms.

Here’s what infectious disease doctors know about how 2019-nCoV incubates and spreads, plus how you can stay safe.

As cases of the novel coronavirus grow in China and around the world, fears are mounting. That was especially true after Chinese health minister Ma Xiaowei told reporters earlier this week that the ability of the virus to spread seems to be getting stronger.

Also called 2019-nCoV or the Wuhan coronavirus (given that the outbreak originated in Wuhan, China), the respiratory illness has sickened thousands of people globally and led to nearly 200 deaths in China, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).

Among other things, Xiaowei said that people with novel coronavirus may be able to spread the infection before they even develop symptoms. That’s naturally raised a lot of questions and concerns, especially now that there are six confirmed cases of novel coronavirus in the U.S., according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Here’s what doctors know about how 2019-nCoV incubates and spreads, plus how you can stay safe.

First, a brief primer on the novel coronavirus.

Human coronaviruses are fairly common and lead to illnesses that last a short amount of time, the CDC says. In fact, most of them simply cause your everyday cold. But two newer forms of coronavirus, specifically MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV, can cause severe illness.



But the novel coronavirus was only recently found to infect people, says infectious disease expert Amesh A. Adalja, M.D., senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. (Scientists believe the 2019-nCoV outbreak may have originated from a seafood market in Wuhan.) Currently, experts are trying to figure out if it behaves more like SARS, MERS, or a common cold virus.

People with 2019-nCoV have shown “a range of symptoms,” according to the WHO, but they tend to be similar to symptoms of the flu: runny nose, headache, cough, sore throat, fever, and a general feeling of being unwell. Coronavirus can also cause serious infections like pneumonia and bronchitis, the CDC says.

How does a coronavirus spread?

Coronaviruses usually spread from an infected person to others through the air via droplets that are released when they cough or sneeze, according to the CDC. Those droplets are then breathed in by others, infecting them in the process. But coronavirus can also be spread through close contact, such as touching or shaking hands, or by touching a surface that was contaminated with the virus and then touching your mouth, nose, or eyes before you wash your hands.

It’s unclear at this point exactly how contagious the novel coronavirus is, and how it stacks up against highly infectious viruses like the flu, Dr. Adalja says. However, it’s not nearly as contagious as measles, he says, adding that “nothing is.”

What is the incubation period for the novel coronavirus?

It seems to be between two and 14 days, Dr. Adalja says. That means someone can be infected with the virus for up to two weeks before they begin to show symptoms.

On average, though, it seems like most people have an incubation period of 10 days, says William Schaffner, M.D., an infectious disease specialist and professor at the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine.

Is it true that people can spread the novel coronavirus before they have symptoms?

Again, because this novel coronavirus was only recently found to infect people, there’s a lot researchers are still learning about it, says Dr. Adalja.

Chinese government officials have said that the virus can be spread from people who don’t yet have symptoms, but they haven’t provided data yet to prove that, explains Dr. Schaffner. “So far, the CDC says that they have not seen that evidence and they have no evidence of that happening here yet,” he says. “But it certainly is biologically possible.”

New evidence from Germany does support the theory. A case report published in the New England Journal of Medicine on January 30 detailed how a woman from Shanghai traveled to Germany for a business trip between January 19 to January 22. She had no symptoms of coronavirus during the time and only became sick on her flight back to China. She was officially diagnosed with 2019-nCoV on January 26.

But on January 24, a businessman who met with the women on January 20 and 21 developed symptoms of coronavirus, including a sore throat, chills, muscle soreness, fever, and cough. He went back to work on January 27 and later tested positive for 2019-nCoV. On January 28, three of the businessman’s coworkers tested positive for the virus and only one of them had come into contact with the woman from Shanghai.

This definitely implies that people can spread 2019-nCoV before they have symptoms, which is unusual. “We’ve never seen that with a coronavirus before,” Dr. Adalja says.

Security personnel check the temperature of passengers in the Wharf at the Yangtze River on January 22, 2020 in Wuhan, Hubei province, China. Stringer Getty Images

Is there a vaccine to prevent the novel coronavirus?

Unfortunately, no. Instead, the CDC says that the best way to lower your odds of contracting 2019-nCoV is to avoid being exposed to the virus. If you travel a lot or live in a crowded city, that might be tough.

In the U.S., people diagnosed with 2019-nCoV are being quarantined, and the CDC recently expanded enhanced health screenings to 20 airports. Still, the following preventative actions are the best thing you can do to protect yourself:

Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if you are in a pinch.

Do not touch your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.

Avoid close contact with people who are sick—and stay home when you are sick.

Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.

Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces.

The CDC recommends avoiding all nonessential travel to China.

Ultimately, there’s still a lot researchers are trying to learn about this virus. “We don’t have all the pieces of the puzzle yet, but we’re working on it,” Dr. Schaffner says.

Like what you just read? You’ll love our magazine! Go here to subscribe. Don’t miss a thing by downloading Apple News here and following Prevention. Oh, and we’re on Instagram too.