The coverage on this live blog has ended — but for up-to-the-minute coverage on the coronavirus, visit the live blog from CNBC's Asia-Pacific team. All times below are in Eastern time.

5:00 pm: Washington State patient has been treated and discharged

The coronavirus patient in Washington State has been treated and discharged from Providence Regional Medical Center in Everett, Washington, a spokeswoman from the Snohomish County Health District said. The patient is recovering in isolation at home, the spokeswoman said. "I am at home and continuing to get better," the patient, whose identity remains unknown, said in a statement. "I appreciate all of the concern expressed by members of the public, and I look forward to returning to my normal life."

4:43 pm: Goldman Sachs cancels annual partners meeting

Goldman Sachs canceled its annual partners meeting scheduled for this week because travel restrictions resulting from the coronavirus outbreak prevented some Asia-based employees from making it to the bank's New York headquarters, according to two people familiar with the plans. Chief Executive Officer David Solomon will instead host a townhall meeting for about 250 of the partners able to attend in New York, one of the people said.

4:38 pm: Prepping quarantine facilities for travelers from Hubei

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is now working with state and local health authorities to prepare facilities for quarantine. The Trump administration announced a mandatory 14-day quarantine on Friday for any American who has traveled to Hubei province in the two weeks prior to the announcement. "The discussions about where those patients will go is a conversation the CDC has been having actively with the state and local health departments," Dr. Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, said Monday. "We are working through an operational plan that might be slightly different at each of those locations depending on how much preparation they've done." There are currently 195 Americans in mandatory quarantine, according to health officials. But that number could grow.

4:05 pm: Department of Health and Human Services notified Congress it may tap additional funds

The Department of Health and Human Services notified Congress Sunday that it may transfer about $136 million to combat the outbreak. The CDC would receive up to $75 million, while $52 million would go toward public health and social services and $8.5 million would go towards management expenses, a person familiar with the situation told CNBC. Typically, HHS would have to wait at least 15 days to access the requested funds, so they are asking for that authority now. The Washington Post first reported the news.

12:40 pm: Oil falls to a more than 1-year low

Oil fell to its lowest level in more than a year in midday trading as fears of slowing demand hammered crude prices. "The oil market has been subject to many supply shocks over recent years, but an acute demand shock has not been felt since the 2008 financial crisis," RBC's Michael Tran said in a note to clients, adding that the coronavirus has "roiled the oil market." China is the world's largest oil importer and the second-largest oil consumer, so a demand slowdown could have a big impact on prices.

12 pm: Princess Cruises ship held in Japan

Princess Cruises said it is holding a ship for 24 hours while Japanese health authorities assess the 3,700 passengers and crew on board. A previous guest, who didn't have any symptoms while aboard the ship, tested positive for the coronavirus on Saturday — six days after leaving the ship. "Princess Cruises has confirmed the turnaround of Diamond Princess has been delayed for approximately 24 hours to allow Japan public health authorities the opportunity to review the health status of all guests and crew on board," the company said in a statement. It's unclear where the ship is being held. Correction: The Princess Cruise ship's "turnaround" at port to travel to a new destination has been delayed. An earlier version of this report mischaracterized the action taken by ship.

11:30 am: CDC officials confirm 11 cases in the US

CDC officials confirmed on a conference call with reporters that there are now 11 cases in the U.S., two of which were spread through human contact within the country. The officials also said the U.S. will send more flights to evacuate Americans from Wuhan. Upon arrival in the U.S., Dr. Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, said those passengers will be quarantined for 14 days.

11:20 am: The flu has already killed 10,000 across US as world frets over coronavirus

While the new coronavirus ravages much of China and world leaders rush to close their borders to protect citizens from the outbreak, the flu has quietly killed 10,000 in the U.S. so far this influenza season. "In the U.S., it's really a fear based on media and this being something new," Dr. Jennifer Lighter, hospital epidemiologist at NYU Langone Health, said of the new coronavirus. "When in reality, people can take measures to protect themselves against the flu, which is here and prevalent and has already killed 10,000 people."

10:50 am: The CDC has scheduled a call for 11:30 a.m.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has scheduled a call for 11:30 a.m. to update the public on the new coronavirus. Dr. Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, will speak.

10:45 am: Top WHO official warns world may be 'dangerously unprepared' for next pandemic

WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the world may be "dangerously" unprepared for the next pandemic. At a World Health Organization executive board meeting in Geneva, Tedros urged the 196 member countries to "invest in preparedness," not "panic." He said funding for outbreak preparedness in surrounding countries "has remained grossly inadequate" in the past.

10:30 am: Apple stock knocked off all-time high on fears coronavirus could hurt iPhone sales

Apple stock has been knocked off its all-time high of $324.34 per share amid concerns that the coronavirus outbreak will disrupt company operations in China. Apple shares shot up to the record high after a strong earnings report last week, but investors have cooled. The company previously announced that it had shut all its stores and offices in mainland China through next Sunday.

10 am: UAE suspends flights to China, except Beijing

The United Arab Emirates announced it will suspend all flights to and from China starting on Wednesday, a state news agency reported. Flights from Beijing were exempted from the ban. The UAE is home to Dubai, which has the world's third-busiest airport.

8 am: China says it has 'unblocked' channels of communication with Taiwan over coronavirus

China told the WHO that channels of communication with Taiwan had been"unblocked," with Beijing sharing full information on the coronavirus with authorities across the strait. Taiwan, which is not a WHO member due to China's objections, has 10 confirmed cases of the coronavirus. China considers self-governing Taiwan a wayward province to be brought under its control.

7:02 am: Saudi Arabia is weighing large oil cuts due to coronavirus

Saudi Arabia is debating a short-term oil product cut as the deadly coronavirus continues to spread, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing OPEC officials. The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies are expected to meet Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss the possible actions, according to the Journal.

4:03 am: China accuses the US of spreading fear and panic