What impact disease will have in the United States remains unknown. Public health experts discuss the possible impact of the Chinese coronavirus outbreak in Florida and the U.S. Death toll reached 259 on Saturday in China with nearly 12,000 cases now confirmed.

LAKELAND — Although Florida had seen no cases of the disease caused by the new Chinese coronavirus as of Friday, medical experts say residents should be concerned and vigilant about the threat.

But panic and fear are not options.

“Under the category of newly emerging infectious diseases, when there's not a lot of immunity in the community, there is always a concern because you don't know how the virus is going to behave,” said Daniel Haight, medical director of infection prevention and control at Lakeland Regional Health. “And you don't know how your actions and reactions will effect it.”

USA TODAY REPORT>>Coronavirus: Everything you need to know

Unfortunately, “people always overreact to epidemics and infectious diseases,” said Ira Longini, professor of biostatistics at the University of Florida's College of Public Health and Health Professions and an authority on infectious diseases from influenza to Ebola. “There is no reason to panic. You and I are not at risk.”

As it usually does, fear of the unknown contributes to a climate of fear. And when it involves science that most people don't understand, it pushes the needle further toward panic.

Signs of panic have begun surfacing, said Glenn Morris, a UF professor and director of its Emerging Pathogens Institute.

“One of the things we're seeing is people who say, 'I saw a Chinese person on my street. Will I get infected?' ” Morris said. “Yes, the disease came from China. Just because people are Chinese doesn't mean they're infectious. We're starting to get calls from groups asking 'Should we exclude Chinese people from our meeting?' ”

Unknowns of the virus

There are many unknowns about the current coronavirus, but there also are facts scientists know about that type of virus and the diseases from it. Here's what we know.

The 2019 Novel Coronavirus, identified as 2019-nCoV (for new 2019 coronavirus), arose in the Chinese city of Wuhan in December. Because it's so new, the virus has yet to get a common name, such as SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome), a pandemic that erupted from China in 2002, and the MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome) coronavirus that arose in 2012.

A coronavirus is the same kind of virus that causes the common cold but is also the source of more deadly diseases, such as SARS and MERS. The virus usually spreads when infected people cough or sneeze, releasing it into the atmosphere, where it can settle and briefly live on various surfaces.

The disease caused by 2019-nCoV shares symptoms with those viruses but also to common flu and other viral infections, including fever, coughing and respiratory problems, such as shortness of breath, Haight said. That makes it difficult to distinguish from the more common disease prevalent this time of year.

And like other viral diseases, symptoms depend upon a person's immune system and overall health, he said. For individuals, symptoms can range from mild, even non-existent, to severe, leading to pneumonia and other complications.

Among some 12,000 confirmed cases so far, almost all in China, about 20% have become severe, resulting in death in 2% to 3% of infected people, he said. As of Saturday, China's death toll from 2019-nCoV had reached 259, according to the World Health Organization. WHO on Thursday declared the virus outbreak a global emergency as more than a dozen countries had documented cases.

By comparison, about 30% of confirmed SARS infections were severe with a 10% death rate, or 774 people among more than 8,000 cases, Haight said. Half the MERS cases were judged severe leading to a 36% death rate, or 858 people among more than 2,000 infections.

Then there are the vexing unknowns.

According to the scientific consensus, symptoms appear anywhere from two to 14 days after first contact with a person infected with 2019-nCoV, Haight, Longini and Morris said.

The average so far is six days, Morris said.

But the tail end of that period means a seemingly healthy person carrying 2019-nCoV could possibly infect others, the experts said.

But not all viruses can be spread absent disease symptoms, they said. Scientists don't know yet whether a person infected with 2019-nCoV and without symptoms can spread the disease.

The issue may be more academic than practical. Most coronaviruses spread after symptoms appear and not before, even when that's possible, Haight said.

“You might be shedding the virus prior to feeling sick, but for many germs, you are most contagious when you have a significant fever,” he said. “When you're sick with fever and coughing, stay home.”

How effectively can virus spread?

Also uncertain at this early stage is how effectively 2019-nCoV can spread.

Scientists use a calculation called “R-nought,” or R0, representing the number of people estimated to catch a disease from a single infected person. An R0 of 1 or less means the infection will end quickly while a controlling spread gets more difficult as R0 increases.

SARS has an R0 from 2 to 5, depending upon the study, while seasonal flu has an R0 around 1.3, according to a Tuesday story in The Atlantic magazine. The R0 for measles in an unvaccinated population ranges from 12 to 16.

A study of the Wuhan outbreak published Thursday in the New England Journal of Medicine put the R0 at 2.2, according to the magazine's website. A similar British study put it at 2.5 while a Chinese study considered an outlier estimated 3.3 to 5.5.

“While this virus is contagious, it does not appear to be super-contagious,” Morris said. “The fatality rate is relatively low.”

The biology of 2019-nCoV helps to limit its spread, Haight said.

Once a person expels the virus with a cough or sneeze, it doesn't stay airborne very long, where people can catch it just by being in the same room, he said. But it will drop onto a nearby surface and can live for an unknown time, probably hours but not days.

That means 2019-nCoV can be spread indirectly by touching an infected surface, but it needs one more step.

“The virus cannot get through the skin; it needs a pathway,” Haight said.

Wash your hands — a lot

The most common pathway into the body is through the mouth, nose or eyes, he said. If someone picks up 2019-nCoV via the hands and then touches the face, infection can occur.

That's why frequent hand washing is the best preventive measure a person can take to avoid the disease, Haight, Longini and Morris agreed.

“Soap and water is the best, but if you don't have access to that, a hand sanitizer is effective,” Haight said. “The coronavirus is surrounded by a delicate envelope that can be disrupted by hand sanitizers.”

Effective hand washing involves more than just a few seconds with soap and water, he said. A person needs to scrub the entire surface of both hands long enough to sing the “happy birthday” song twice.

So to with hand sanitizing gels and foams, Haight said. One needs to use a sufficient amount to get the entire surface of both hands wet.

People would also need to wash or sanitize their hands many times a day in addition to after bathroom breaks or before eating, he said.

Ideally people should clean their hands every time before touching the face, Haight said. They can transmit a virus that they picked up from any surface touched within the past couple of hours, including a gasoline pump or public door handle.

Many people in China and other countries have taken to wearing face masks in the hopes of erecting a barrier against 2019-nCoV. The medical experts agreed masks are ineffective.

“They don't protect you really at all,” Longini said.

The masks used by medical professionals are different than the ones purchased off the shelf, Morris said, and professionals get training in how to use them effectively.

“I do not recommend that ordinary people wear facemasks,” Haight said. “It can give a false sense of security. Most masks do not prevent air from passing around the edges.”

The most effective public health for diminishing the spread of 2019-nCoV is isolating patients until they've completely recovered, the experts agreed.

People can help that effort by isolating themselves as soon as disease symptoms arise, they said. Nobody should play down the risk of spreading the disease by insisting on working or other public activities while fighting symptoms.

That guideline should be followed not only for 2019-nCoV but any other viral disease, the experts said.

Most people battling respiratory symptoms will be diagnosed with a more common flu or cold, they said.

The people at risk of having the 2019-nCoV disease have had direct contact with a known infected person, which currently means a recently arrived Chinese resident, particularly from the Wuhan area, or recently returned visitor to China. Contact with anyone who has not been in China in the past 14 days or longer would not pose a risk.

People at risk of having contracted 2019-nCoV from one of those groups and experiencing symptoms should contact their doctor or a public health official.

Sick people at risk of having 2019-nCoV should not go to a doctor's office or clinic before calling first, Haight said. That would allow the medical staff to take measures against spreading the virus.

People unable to call first should inform the medical receptionist of the risk upon arrival, Longini said.

Polk residents with China contacts

The Ledger reached out to several Polk County residents who've emigrated from China regarding what they've heard from family and friends still living there. Most came from areas hundreds of miles away from Wuhan, the center of the outbreak.

“They're taking a lot of precautions,” said Nian Wang, associate professor of microbiology and cell science at the Citrus Research and Education Center in Lake Alfred, about conversations with family members living about 500 miles from Wuhan.

They're concerned but not fearful, Wang said.

But Wang has also contacted friends in Wuhan through social media, he said.

“There's a lot of panic,” Wang said. “If they get a fever, they're afraid of getting the disease.”

Patrick Zhang, a researcher for the Florida Industrial and Phosphate Research Institute at Florida Polytechnic University, said his family lives more than 600 miles from Wuhan and are enjoying a government-mandated extended holiday for the Chinese New Year. His home province has only a handful of confirmed cases so far.

“Even though there are not a lot of infections, they're still advised to stay home,” Zhang said.

The Ledger also reached out to Ye Caiyun, an official with the Ganzhou City Agricultural and Rural Affairs Bureau, who visited the U.S. last year and stayed with a Winter Haven couple. She shared her experiences with The Ledger for a May 13 story.

Jiangxi Province, which includes Ganzhou City, is about 400 miles from Wuhan, and 2019-nCoV has had a much greater impact there, Ye said.

“There are medical staff checking passengers' body temperatures when cars and vehicles exit the expressway,” she said in a Wednesday email. “Those who are from Hubei Province (the Wuhan area) are monitored specifically. Tents are set up near the exits for passengers to take rest.”

Jiangxi residents are being urged to stay at home, Ye said, and there aren't many places to go because restaurants, theaters and other public venues have been closed. Government-sanctioned neighborhood watch groups are restricting certain communities to residents only.

There were only 21 confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV in the city, she said.

“Those who have direct contact with the confirmed patients are quarantined for 14 days. Wuhan and 16 other cities in Hubei are locked down, and some villages with confirmed cases are locked down,” Ye wrote. “People are not panic in Ganzhou, just a little bit worried. Food supply is not impacted here in Ganzhou.”

Nobody among Ye's family or friends has been infected, she said.

Opinions among the experts differed as to what impact 2019-nCoV will ultimately have in the U.S.

“I think it's probably still too soon. While there's still evidence of a spread, it's been reasonably well contained,” Morris said.

Morris was optimistic because only one of the six U.S. cases reported as of Friday involved transmission inside the United States. The rest came from contact with China.

Longini was less optimistic.

“If this virus does what I think it will do, there's no way we can stop it,” Longini said. “This virus appears to be more transmissible than SARS, but it doesn't appear to be as deadly. I don't see why it wouldn't spread well in other countries.”

Kevin Bouffard can be reached at kevin.bouffard@theledger.com or at 863-802-7591.