WASHINGTON – China's foreign ministry said Monday that the U.S. has not helped contain the outbreak of coronavirus that began in the city of Wuhan but has instead spread fear by imposing travel bans.

"There is no reason for measures that unnecessarily interfere with international travel," Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for the Chinese foreign ministry, said in a statement.

More than 17,000 cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in China and 183 across 26 other countries from an outbreak that has killed 362 people. There are 11 confirmed cases in the U.S.

Last week, the U.S. State Department issued a travel advisory telling Americans not to go to China because of the virus. And President Donald Trump called the outbreak a public health emergency requiring quarantines for U.S. travelers who recently visited parts of China associated with the outbreak.

Hua said the U.S. has "inappropriately overreacted" by issuing the travel advisory.

On Monday, the man who became the first U.S. patient infected with the virus said he was out of the hospital and getting better, according his statement provided to the Associated Press.

The 35-year-old unidentified man thanked his doctors, nurses and other staff at Providence Regional Medical Center in Everett, Washington. He fell sick after returning home from a visit to China and was admitted to the hospital Jan. 20.

In Japan, officials were weighing a fairly drastic measure themselves in dealing with the virus. They're considering whether to quarantine more than 3,000 people on a cruise ship returning to Yokohama after learning a passenger who got off in Hong Kong had tested positive for the virus. A team of quarantine officials and medical staff boarded the ship Monday and did health checks.

The World Health Organization declared the outbreak a global health emergency on Thursday, but the group's chief, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said there is "no reason for measures that unnecessarily interfere with international travel and trade."

U.S. reaction:Coronavirus is spreading. And so is anti-Chinese sentiment and xenophobia

Hua said the U.S. "hasn't provided any substantive assistance to us, but it was the first to evacuate personnel from its consulate in Wuhan, the first to suggest partial withdrawal of its embassy staff, and the first to impose a travel ban on Chinese travelers. What it has done could only create and spread fear, which is a very bad example."

U.S. officials have said the administration has offered to help China deal with the outbreak. On Sunday, national security adviser Robert O'Brien told CBS News that the U.S. offered to send officials from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other health professionals to China.

Wuhan coronavirus:Everything you need to know about coronavirus, the deadly illness alarming the world

The facts:Misinformation on the coronavirus death toll is spreading

"And we have not heard back yet from the Chinese on those offers, but we're prepared to continue to cooperate with them," O'Brien said on "Face the Nation."

"We've got the greatest medical system in the world," he said. "This is a worldwide concern. We want to help our Chinese colleagues if we can."

Despite the public health emergency declaration, "there's no reason for Americans to panic," O'Brien said.

"This is something that is a low-risk, we think, in the U.S," he said. "But President Trump, from the day he took office, made protecting Americans and keeping them safe – whether it's from terrorists or criminal organizations or from viruses like the new novel coronavirus – his top priority. So we're taking steps to keep Americans safe, and the government is functioning in that direction."

How hospital got built:China built a hospital in 10 days to battle coronavirus. These 19 photos show how it got done

Contributing: John Bacon, Jorge Ortiz, USA TODAY; The Associated Press