Coronavirus: As death toll increases, foreigners who visited China after Jan 15 banned from entering India | Photo Credit: ANI

New Delhi: Foreign nationals who have been to China on or after January 15 have been barred from entering India, said the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). Such foreigners will not be allowed to enter from either air, land or seaport including Indo-Nepal, Indo-Bhutan, Indo-Bangladesh or Indo-Myanmar land borders.

In a circular issued on Saturday, the DGCA reiterated that all visas issued to Chinese nationals before February 5 have been suspended.

DGCA clarified that, "These visa restrictions will not apply to aircrew, who may be Chinese nationals or other foreign nationalities coming from China.”

"Foreigners who have been to China on or after January 15, 2020, are not allowed to enter India from any air, land or seaport, including Indo-Nepal, Indo-Bhutan, Indo-Bangladesh or Indo-Myanmar land borders," the DGCA said.

Indian airlines such as IndiGo and Air India have suspended all flights between India and China while SpiceJet continues to fly on Delhi-Hong Kong route.

The current outbreak of n-coronavirus (2019-nCoV) was first reported from the Chinese city of Wuhan on 31 December 2019.

Directorate General of Civil Aviation: Foreigners who have been to #China on or after Jan 15, 2020, are not allowed to enter India from any air, land or seaport including Indo-Nepal, Indo-Bhutan, Indo-Bangladesh or Indo-Myanmar land borders. #coronavirus pic.twitter.com/oJewcAyzvI — ANI (@ANI) February 9, 2020

The exact reason behind the outbreak of the virus which started from Wuhan in China’s Hubei province remains unknown. However, experts believe it started from a food market in the Chinese city of Wuhan where wildlife was being sold illegally.

The virus already claimed 811 lives in China alone and total number of infected cases reached 37,000, as per latest figures. The death toll has rapidly increased over the past few weeks.

The health department authorities confirmed over 2600 new cases of the coronavirus outbreak and 89 deaths across 31 provinces in China on Saturday alone.

Chinese National Health Commission said out of 89 deaths on Saturday, 81 were reported from Hubei province alone. Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak is situated in Hubei province. The city has been on a lockdown and quarantined in order to stop and control the epidemic.

On February 1 and 2, Air India conducted two special flights to Chinese city of Wuhan, epicentre of the outbreak, evacuating 647 Indians and seven Maldivians.