The meeting hosted by the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) brought together senior executives of airlines operating domestic and international routes.

Briefing reporters at the start of the meeting, TCAA Director General Hamza Johari said participants would set out precautionary measures to be adhered to so that infectious diseases are kept at bay.

He said the meeting has been convened as a matter of urgency due to the coronavirus threat that is already wreaking havoc around the world.

“We must take precautionary measures because we receive a huge number of arrivals through our airports,” he said.

Johari noted that although there is no case of coronavirus or any other contagious infectious disease, the government is putting in place strategies to ensure that no such diseases find their way into the country due to weak control systems.

Meanwhile, the World Health Organization (WHO) yesterday declared the new coronavirus a global health emergency as the outbreak continues to spread outside China.

"The main reason for this declaration is not what is happening in China but what is happening in other countries," said WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.

The concern is that it could spread to countries with weaker health systems, he said.

The US joined a number of other countries that have told their citizens not to travel to China.

The State Department issued a level four warning - having previously urged Americans to "reconsider" travel to China - and said any citizens in China "should consider departing using commercial means".

China has said it will send charter planes to bring back Hubei province residents who recently travelled overseas "as soon as possible."

A foreign ministry spokesman said this was because of "practical difficulties" Chinese citizens have faced abroad. Hubei is where the virus emerged.

At least 213 people in the China have died from the virus, mostly in Hubei, with almost 10,000 cases nationally. The WHO said there had been 98 cases in 18 other countries, but no deaths.

Most international cases arose from people who had been to Wuhan city in Hubei province.

However in eight cases - in Germany, Japan, Vietnam and the United States - patients were infected by people who had travelled to China.

Speaking at a news conference in Geneva, Dr Tedros described the virus as an "unprecedented outbreak" that has been met with an "unprecedented response."

He praised "extraordinary measures" the Chinese authorities had taken, insisting that there was no reason to limit trade or travel to China.

"Let me be clear, this declaration is not a vote of no confidence in China," he said.

But various countries have taken steps to close borders or cancel flights, and companies like Google, Ikea, Starbucks and Tesla have closed their shops or stopped operations.

US Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross says the outbreak could "accelerate the return of jobs to North America."

WHO declares a public health emergency of international concern when there is an extraordinary event which is likely to constitute a public health risk to other states through international spread of such disease.

It has previously declared five global public health emergencies, starting with swine flu in 2009, when the H1N1 virus spread across the world, killing more than 200,000 people.

Next was polio in 2014, where it was noticed that although closer than ever to eradication in 2012, polio numbers rapidly rose in 2013.

Zika was next in 2016, where WHO declared Zika a public health emergency after the disease spread rapidly through the Americas.

Ebola has twice been so declared, in 2014 and 2019 where the first emergency over the virus lasted from August 2014 to March 2016 with nearly 30,000 people infected.

More than 11,000 died in West Africa at the time, while a second emergency was declared last year as an outbreak spread in DR Congo but scarcely touched neighbouring countries, observers noted.