With officials confirming the country's first possible coronavirus case in Auckland, what is New Zealand doing to combat the spread of the virus?

In comparison to other countries, not much.

The death toll in China is in the hundreds, with almost 10,000 cases confirmed around the world.

But action here has been minimal since the outbreak began, with authorities saying there were no plans to screen passengers arriving from coronavirus-affected countries.

READ MORE:

* Coronavirus cases highly likely to arrive in NZ, health officials say as they seek extra quarantine powers

* Nurses at airports to test passengers arriving from China who feel unwell

* Coronavirus: As illness spreads, anxiety rises in China and overseas

* US to screen airline passengers from China for new illness

* China reports 4 more cases in deadly viral pneumonia outbreak

NEW ZEALAND

On Saturday, testing was under way for New Zealand's first suspected coronavirus case after a person came forward to Auckland Hospital.

This week, some flights from China into Auckland and Christchurch were being met by health officials. Passengers were given information about the virus, and no-one had displayed symptoms.

On Thursday, coronavirus was made officially notifiable in New Zealand.

KEGIN FRAYER/GETTY IMAGES A Chinese worker from Starbucks checks the temperature of a customer at Beijing Capital Airport.

The status makes it compulsory for every case of the disease to be "notified", which means that any case discovered by health practitioners must be reported to Government health officials.

It gives the medical officers of health the power to quarantine people suspected of infection, issue restrictions on movement and travel and apply for court orders, such as for treatment.

This week, the Ministry's National Health Co-ordination Centre was also activated with trained staff to help the sector respond.

AUSTRALIA

Australia was taking a different approach and set up border, isolation, surveillance and case tracing mechanisms, according to the country's Department of Health. There were currently nine confirmed cases across Australia - two in Queensland, three in Victoria, and four in New South Wales. They had tested more than 200 people who showed symptoms of the virus.

Each state and territory had the ability to put people in lock down to stop the virus spreading, and had designated isolation facilities, according to the ABC. The disease had also been made a 'notifiable disease' under the NSW Public Health Act, requiring doctors to report any suspected cases.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison previously said the government was taking the issue "incredibly seriously".

Initially New Zealand did not have the facilities to test for the virus, with samples needing to be sent to Australia for testing. ESR on Friday began testing in New Zealand, offering results within 24 hours.

A global emergency has been declared by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the first suspected coronavirus case has been located in Auckland - so what is New Zealand doing to combat the spread of the virus?

UNITED STATES

On Saturday, the United States declared a public health emergency because of the version of coronavirus that hit Chinawhich has spread to other nations.

The US has also confirmed seven cases of the virus: two in Illinois, three in California, one in Arizona, and one in Washington.

American Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar also announced that US President Donald Trump would temporarily bar entry to the US of foreign nationals believed to be a risk of transmitting the virus. The ban affected travellers who had been in China within the last 14 days.

Any US citizen who had been in the Hubei Province in the last 14 days would be subject to up to 14 days of mandatory quarantine upon their return to the US.

Earlier, the State Department issued 'do not travel' warnings for China. There were 195 Americans evacuated from China throughout the week, all of whom were being monitored at a California military base. US media reported none of those quarantined were showing any symptoms.

Trump also created a taskforce to lead the government's response to the virus. The taskforce was made up of 12 experts including the director of the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention and the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

In a statement, the White House said the taskforce would "lead the administration's efforts to monitor, contain and mitigate the spread of the virus, while ensuring that the American people have the most accurate and up-to-date health and travel information".

Twenty airports across the country were screening passengers who entered the US with coughs, fevers or shortness of breath. Passengers found to be sick were screened again. US Vice-President Mike Pence previously said these airports received 90 per cent of passengers from China.

KEVIN FRAYER/GETTY IMAGES The death toll in China had passed 210, with around 9700 cases confirmed in various provinces on the mainland.

UNITED KINGDOM

Two patients from the same family in England have tested positive for coronavirus, according to the country's chief medical officer.

The four chief medical officers for the UK have raised the risk level regarding the coronavirus from "low" to "moderate", according to CNBC.

Precautionary steps were being taken and around 177 people had also been tested.

The airports were the main priority, with public health experts stationed at Heathrow Airport, meeting passengers arriving from China and educating them on the symptoms of the disease. This was called "advanced monitoring".

A special quarantine unit for returning UK visitors from the Hubei province in China had been set up in the north west of England, CNBC reported.

Recently, a flight carrying 83 British people from Wuhan, China landed in the UK. Passengers were taken to a hospital where they will spend 14 days in quarantine.

Traffic in the airport from China was decreasing as British Airways suspended direct flights to and from mainland China and the Chinese government stopped flights from Wuhan.

Ian Forsyth/ Getty Image Two women wearing face masks while walking through Newcastle, England.

There were calls to suspend all Air New Zealand flights direct from New Zealand to China, but instead the company scaled back the number of operating flights.

Doctors in the UK had been warned about how to handle patients who may be infected. According to Huffington Post, they were to isolate people who travelled from Wuhan recently and displayed symptoms. These patients weren't to be physically examined.

The country's High Consequence Infectious Disease (HCID) treatment centres would be used if the virus was confirmed there.

In other parts of the world, Italy refused to allow a 6000-passenger cruise ship to dock in Rome and Russia had closed its 4300 kilometre border with China.

THAILAND

Thailand has stepped up surveillance measures. It has at least 19 confirmed cases, the most in any country outside of China,

According to The Guardian, Thailand has introduced airport screening for all passengers travelling from China. While people working in the tourism industry were expected to be screened for coronavirus symptoms.