© Bloomberg Lawyers for Liberty has argued in the Malaysian High Court that Singapore’s anti-fake news law is a violation of fundamental human rights and cannot be enforced in Malaysia. Photo: Bloomberg

Lawyers for Liberty says the island nation’s use of the Pofma law is an attempt to ‘stifle or crack down on freedom of speech in Malaysia’

The rights group had claimed prison officers in the island nation had been instructed to carry out a “brutal procedure” during hanging

Malaysian human rights watchdog Lawyers for Liberty has filed a suit against Singaporean Home Minister K. Shanmugam, just days after it was accused of breaching Singapore’s anti-fake news laws.

The group’s lawyers on Friday filed an originating summons in the Malaysian High Court, and are also seeking a declaration that Shanmugam cannot take any action against the group in Malaysia under Singapore’s new Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (Pofma).

The group is arguing the law is a violation of fundamental human rights and cannot be enforced in Malaysia as it goes against domestic public policy.

© AFP A protest against capital punishment in Singapore. Malaysia’s Lawyers for Liberty alleged that execution methods in Singapore were brutal and unlawful. Photo: AFP

Although the two neighbouring nations have a long-standing reciprocal agreement to recognise and execute warrants of arrest, going against national public policy is one of the exceptions to the enforcement of foreign judgments.

“The reason we brought this suit is that it’s an attempt by Singapore to encroach upon, stifle or crack down on freedom of speech in Malaysia. It is an attempt to reach out their tentacles and impose their own oppressive fake news act on Malaysians issuing statements in Malaysia,” said Lawyers for Liberty adviser N. Surendran, an anti-death penalty activist and former member of parliament who is named as one of the plaintiffs in the suit, alongside Lawyers for Liberty director Melissa Sasidaran and the organisation itself.

The group is represented by top human rights lawyers Ambiga Sreenevasan and Gurdial Singh Nijar.

“If they extend this law extraterritorially they are applying their laws to citizens of this country to prevent them from exercising fundamental rights given under our Constitution,” said Gurdial, adding that the courts had to decide if public policy would override Singapore’s claim to sovereignty in this instance.

Gurdial encouraged Shanmugam to waive his claim to state immunity on the basis of rule of law, and have the matter adjudicated “not in Singaporean courts but in a neutral area like Malaysia, where our citizens are directly affected.”

The South China Morning Post has reached out to Singapore’s Ministry of Home Affairs for comment.

© Bloomberg The Kuala Lumpur Courts Complex, where the legal challenge against Pofma was heard. Photo: Bloomberg

Pofma was invoked against Lawyers for Liberty after it claimed in a statement that prison officers in Singapore had been instructed to carry out a “brutal procedure” during hanging, and that hanging methods were “unlawful”.

It said officers were “told to kick the back of the neck” of prisoners whenever the rope broke because that would be “consistent with death by hanging”.

“The officers are told not to kick more than two times, so that there will be no telltale marks in case there is an autopsy,” said the Lawyers for Liberty statement.

Singapore’s Ministry of Home Affairs refuted the claims, saying they were “untrue, baseless and preposterous”.

Under the controversial law passed in October, Singaporean ministers can combat “deliberate online falsehoods” through several tools, including so-called “Part 3 directions” that can be served to individuals or organisations to force them to make corrections or take down posts, and “Part 4 directions” where social media companies and internet service providers can be directed to take action when the content creator does not comply with the earlier order.

However, Lawyers for Liberty have maintained that their allegations stem from credible sources – specifically, prison guards that have worked for or are currently working for the prison system in Singapore – and has refused to comply with the correction order, resulting in Singaporean authorities asking internet service providers to block the Lawyers for Liberty website.

© AFP Singapore’s home and law minister K. Shanmugam has defended the anti-fake news law. Photo: AFP

This move showed that Singapore’s government was “more interested in silencing us rather than getting to the truth of what’s happening”, said Surendran.

“We have written to them and offered to give them our evidence. They did not respond to our attempts. Our sources have said they are willing to testify if they are treated as whistle-blowers, but the fact we have been threatened with Pofma shows that our decision to keep our sources secret was the correct one,” he said at the Kuala Lumpur Court Complex on Friday. He added that another guard employed by Changi Prison had come forward since Lawyers for Liberty had gone public.

Shanmugam has vociferously defended Pofma despite local and international criticism, giving assurances that free speech proponents have little to worry about as Pofma only targets “falsehoods”, “bots”, “trolls” and “fake accounts”.

Although Malaysia previously had its own fake news law, this was repealed by the government after elections in 2018 that saw the Pakatan Harapan coalition wrest power from Barisan Nasional, meaning that Pofma has no parallel in Malaysian criminal law.

Despite an Amnesty International report finding that most countries are abandoning capital punishment, Singapore, Vietnam and Thailand were found to be going in the opposite direction. In 2018, Singapore hanged 13 people – its most since 2003. It maintains that the death penalty is an important component of its comprehensive anti-drug strategy.

Malaysia has moved towards abolishing the death penalty, placing a moratorium on the punishment

as part of Pakatan Harapan’s progressive legal reform agenda.

More Articles from SCMP

Wuhan coronavirus: Top Rank postpones China boxing debut owing to concerns over outbreak

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer takes Alex Ferguson’s lead with bizarre ‘long ball’ Liverpool jibes, but they don’t stand up to scrutiny

Will ‘one country, two systems’ survive after 2047?

Hong Kong government must act with greater urgency in its response to virus

How to stop Hong Kong protests and politics ruining family time at Chinese New Year: tips on avoiding conflict

This article originally appeared on the South China Morning Post (SCMP), the leading news media reporting on China and Asia. For more SCMP stories, please download our mobile app, follow us on Twitter, and like us on Facebook.

Copyright (c) 2020. South China Morning Post Publishers Ltd. All rights reserved.