New Coronavirus patients arrive at a temporary hospital facility in Wuhan on 5 February. | Photo Credit: AP

Key Highlights Since the outbreak, the epicentre of which is believed to be Wuhan, social media and other online channels have been inundated with false information prescribing unscientific and baseless preventative measures, and treatments

As health experts scramble to treat patients, and develop a vaccine, many opportunistic outfits have sought to peddle misinformation to serve their own ends

A WhatsApp message has also been doing the rounds peddling claims that a glass of boiled garlic water is effective in treating the condition

As per the latest figures from the World Health Organisation, the novel coronavirus has now infected 28,336 people, with the death toll rising to 565. Although the virus has been diagnosed in 28 different countries, Hong Kong and the Philippines are the only two nations to have announced deaths aside from Mainland China. China has already quarantined the entire Hubei province, and on 5 February, China's leader Xi Jinping ordered a crackdown on any individuals undermining the government's efforts to contain the virus, and develop a vaccine. Calling it a 'critical moment' in the country's battle against the virus, the Chinese president said that anyone manufacturing and selling fake products, and misleading the public will face severe action.

Since the outbreak, the epicentre of which is believed to be Wuhan, social media and other online channels have been inundated with false information prescribing unscientific and baseless preventative measures, and treatments. To combat the disease of misinformation that, many would argue, is spreading faster than the virus itself, the World Health Organisation, on 30 January, recognised the spread of false information as a serious concern, labelling it an “infodemic”.





As health experts scramble to treat patients, and develop a vaccine, many opportunistic outfits have sought to peddle misinformation to serve their own ends. India's Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, Sowa Rigpa and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) came under scathing criticism from doctors and health specialists around the country when it released a multi-lingual public advisory outlining prevention and symptom management techniques and treatments based on ayurvedic, homeopathic and unani practices. Although extremely popular in India, such schools of practice have no basis in modern science and are widely condemned by the Indian Medical Association.

A WhatsApp message has also been doing the rounds peddling claims that a glass of boiled garlic water is effective in treating the condition. However, no research or scientific data accompany the claim. The World Health Organisation itself has continued to maintain that, till date, no treatment or vaccine has been developed that has proven to be effective and safe in curing the virus. Other claims made via social media include avoiding Chinese food, and frozen dairy products like ice cream and kulfi. One of the more outlandish claims made by the Hindu Mahasabha president Swami Chakrapani Maharaj was that an application of cow dung and urine is effective in curing the virus.

With no immediate end in sight in the fight against the virus, one can rest assured that the overabundance of misinformation available online and via other means will continue. Kerala, the site of the first coronavirus case in India and all others since, has revealed that it has already arrested three individuals responsible for the spread of fake information. While cyber cells may prove to be one measure by which misinformation can be tackled, a policy premised on deterrence, similar to those employed in China and Singapore, may also be another avenue to consider during periods of health crises.

The views expressed by the author are personal and do not in any way represent those of Times Network.