The death toll due to the new coronavirus outbreak mounted to 41 in China, a news agency quoted the Chinese government as saying on early Saturday.

The deadly virus spread has now infected more than 1,000 people globally, highlighting the challenges for health authorities around the world working to prevent a global pandemic.

The Health Commission of Hubei Province said in a statement published early Saturday that 180 new cases had been reported as of end-Friday, putting the total number of confirmed patients in the province at 752.

Just three of the 41 deaths took place outside China's Wuhan, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak.

This is nearly a 60 per cent jump from the previous death toll, that was 26, The New York Times reported.

Death toll due to new coronavirus jumps to 41 in China, according to government: AFP news agency ANI (@ANI) January 24, 2020

Earlier report by the National Health Commission had confirmed that over 800 people were infected with the coronavirus while 26 people had died in China. With fresh reports of 15 deaths, the toll has risen to 41.

Thirteen cities in China are currently under lockdown as the deadly virus continues to spread across the country and overseas.

Malaysia on Saturday said it had confirmed three cases of coronavirus infection, the first in the Southeast Asian country. Late Friday, France health ministry announced two cases of the deadly new coronavirus from China, the first cases in Europe. The minister had said she expects more cases.

In a separate statement on Friday, the health ministry announced the third case, a relative of one of the first two.

The vast majority of the cases and all of the 41 confirmed deaths to date have been in China, but the virus has also been detected in Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Nepal, France and the United States.

Thailand has five cases, Singapore and Taiwan three, Japan, Vietnam, South Korea and the United States have each reported two cases, and Nepal one.

Meanwhile, a total of 11 people have been kept under observation for possible exposure to novel coronavirus infection- three in Mumbai, seven in Kerala and one in Hyderabad. Out of these 11, four persons, who returned from China, tested negative, the Union Health ministry had said on Friday.

As many as 20,844 passengers from 96 flights have been screened for novel coronavirus symptoms in India as of January 24, a statement from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said.

Novel coronavirus (nCoV) is a large family of viruses that causes illnesses ranging from common cold to acute respiratory syndromes, but the virus that has so far killed 25 people and affected 830 in China is a novel strain and not seen before.

It emerged from a seafood and animal market in China's Wuhan, and is suspected to have spread to as far as the US.

According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the common symptoms of the nCoV strain include respiratory symptoms such as fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties.

The World Health Organization declared the new coronavirus an emergency in China this week but stopped short of declaring it of international concern. The virus continues to spread globally, however: French authorities reported Europe’s first confirmed cases on Friday evening.

(With inputs from AP, Reuters)

ALSO READ | Coronavirus: Doctor at hospital in China's Hubei province dies from virus

ALSO READ | France confirms 2 cases of coronavirus, more cases expected

ALSO WATCH | Coronavirus scare: 2 persons, who returned from China, kept under observation in Mumbai