AKP Phnom Penh, January 29, 2020 --

Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Techo Hun Sen, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia, will give his remarks on the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) tomorrow morning at the Peace Palace, Phnom Penh.

The Royal Government of Cambodia has so far paid high attention by taking immediate actions and issuing a series of introductions on measures for the prevention of the new coronavirus spreading.

Samdech Techo Hun Sen has recently appealed to his compatriots to take part in preventing the transmission of 2019-nCoV.

Cambodia has so far detected only a case of 2019-nCoV, since its outbreak in December last year.

The deadly virus, which began in China's Wuhan city, has now arrived in Hong Kong, Taiwan, Macau, Thailand, the U.S., Australia, Canada, France, Nepal, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Vietnam, Malaysia, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Germany.

According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), Coronaviruses (CoV) are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV). A novel coronavirus (nCoV) is a new strain that has not been previously identified in humans.

Coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted between animals and people. Detailed investigations found that SARS-CoV was transmitted from civet cats to humans and MERS-CoV from dromedary camels to humans. Several known coronaviruses are circulating in animals that have not yet infected humans.

On Dec. 31 2019, the WHO China Country Office was informed of cases of pneumonia of unknown etiology (unknown cause) detected in Wuhan city, Hubei province of China. A novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) was identified as the causative virus by Chinese authorities on Jan. 7.

On Jan. 10, WHO published a range of interim guidance for all countries on how they can prepare for this virus, including how to monitor for sick people, test samples, treat patients, control infection in health centres, maintain the right supplies, and communicate with the public about this new virus.

Common signs of infection include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death.

By Khan Sophirom