AN UNKNOWN number of Texans are in self quarantine after visiting China amid the killer coronavirus pandemic, reports say.

The city of San Antonio confirmed a number of people in Bexar County were confined to their own homes after returning to the US.

As some Texans are confirned to their homes, over the world people are taking precautions Credit: EPA

Officials say these individuals are currently undergoing a 14-day self-quarantine as of 10 am on Sunday, reports News 4 San Antonio.

Dawn Emerick, the Metro Health Director said: "Metro Health is monitoring a small number of travelers who have returned from mainland China.

"Per the President’s public health emergency declaration, and consistent with state and CDC protocols, the travelers are in a 14-day self quarantine since their departure from China and they are not showing symptoms.

"They will monitor their temperature and check for signs or symptoms and report to Metro Health twice daily.

"If there is a confirmed case, we will share information as necessary, while also considering the privacy of these travelers.”

Currently, there are no reported cases of the deadly coronavirus in the area.

CONFIRMED CASES

There are 12 confirmed cases of coronavirus in the US.

Experts believe the fatal infection stemmed from a meat market in the Chinese city of Wuhan, where visitors ate wild animals like bats.

There are 37,593 confirmed cases of the virus globally as of Sunday afternoon as the death toll continues to rise, according to Johns Hopkins University.

Currently, 814 people have died from the disease with the majority of fatalities occurring in mainland China.

The coronavirus has now eclipsed the SARs epidemic which killed 774 people, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).

It has been reported a whopping 5 million people left "zombieland" Wuhan.

Experts believe it may be too late to stop the spread as a result of this mas exodus.

Passengers from China walk upon their arrival at an airport outside Kiev Credit: Reuters

A whopping 5 million people left China before news of a pandemic broke Credit: Alamy Live News

AMERICAN VICTIM

An American became the first US citizen to perish from coronavirus this week.

The 60-year-old suffering from the dreaded infection died in coronavirus epicenter Wuhan.

The United States Embassy in Beijing confirmed the victim's age on Saturday, local time.

The patient died at Jinyintan Hospital on February 6, a US embassy spokesman in Beijing said.

PLAGUE SHIP

Meanwhile, 14 Americans have been diagnosed with the virus aboard the quarantined Diamond Princess cruise ship docked off Japan, reports NBC News.

Today, Japan’s health ministry confirmed six more people tested positive for novel coronavirus on the plague ship, bringing the total number of infected to 70.

A spokesperson for Princess Cruises told The Sun earlier this week: "The Japanese government is also providing our ship and team members additional manpower support.

"During the remainder of the time onboard, guests will continue to be provided complimentary internet and telephone service to stay in contact with their family and loved ones.

"In addition, we have added additional live TV channels and a large selection of in-room movies available in multiple languages.

"The cruise activities staff is packaging games, puzzles and trivia and delivering them to guest staterooms."

MOST READ IN NEWS 'CHILD IS LUCKY TO BE ALIVE' Mom 'got baby boy high on cocaine then viciously beat him' 'CULT MOM' HIDDEN 'Cult mom was moved in decoy vehicle' during extradition from Hawaii MOM'S RESPONSE Evelyn's mom had 'expected' reaction when being told remains were found JOE'S TO LOSE Biden 'has massive double-digit lead over Bernie' ahead of mini-Super Tuesday HELP ON HAND Staff working on Gabriel Fernandez doc had 'therapist on call during series' LONG IN THE TOOTH Pensioner, 78, has spent six decades diving with killer tiger sharks

The vessel owned by British-American firm Carnival Corp carrying 3,700 people — docked February 3 at Yokohama Port.

The cruise ship transporting passengers and crew from 56 countries and regions is now stationed at an anchor off the pier south of Tokyo.

The emergency quarantine came about after a passenger who disembarked in Hong Kong was found to be infected with the virus.

3 Eight Americans have been diagnosed with coronavirus as of Friday Credit: Reuters

3 The plague ship is now quarantined near Yokohama Credit: Reuters

3 The total number affected patients onboard is now 61 Credit: AP:Associated Press

Do you have a story for The US Sun team?

Email us at exclusive@the-sun.com or call 212 416 4552.