CLOSE

The public currently is at low risk of contracting the coronavirus, which first was identified in China, but the situation continues to evolve, according to the Guam Department of Public Health and Social Services.

“I think everybody should be very concerned any time you have a virus that is very new and novel. I don’t think that we should ignore it,” said agency Director Linda DeNorcey. “I definitely think that we all need to practice proper precautionary measures.”

Hundreds diagnosed in China

Officials from the Centers for Disease Control this week said the virus that has killed six people in China was confirmed in Washington state. Hundreds of people in China have been diagnosed with the virus, most in the city of Wuhan. Health officials have identified a food market in the city as the possible source of the virus, which is suspected to have jumped from animals to humans.

A handful of cases have been diagnosed in Thailand, South Korea and Japan. A severe coronavirus infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and death.

The World Health Organization on Thursday said there is no evidence of human-to-human infection outside of China, and it declined to categorize the coronavirus as a global health emergency.

Preventing respiratory diseases

Some of Guam’s tourists come from China, but Chinese officials have stopped flights from the affected area, and there are no direct flights from that area to Guam. Airports in several U.S. cities have increased health checks for passengers arriving from China.

“Respiratory illnesses can be prevented if we practice good etiquette,” DeNorcey said. “Covering your mouth when you cough, washing your hands very frequently,” and wearing a mask in places you might be exposed.

The government of Guam will start a public information campaign for the corornavirus, with official information channeled through the Joint Information Center. GovGuam continues to monitor the situation and has alerted healthcare providers to detect possible cases on Guam. GovGuam also has established protocols to speedily send specimens of suspected coronavirus cases to the Centers for Disease Control and it is reviewing existing protocols for outbreaks of respiratory illness.

Guam Memorial Hospital staff will be briefed on Monday.

Dengue fever response

DeNorcey also provided an update on the island’s dengue fever patients, stating no new cases of the mosquito-borne illness have been reported. The island last year identified the first cases of locally acquired dengue fever.

The count stands at 22, DeNorcey said – 14 locally acquired and eight imported.

She said if there are no new cases reported by Jan. 30, then on Jan. 31 Guam can say it has intercepted the transmission of dengue.

More: Dengue fever on Guam: What you need to know

More: With no local lab, wait for dengue results up to two weeks

Read or Share this story: https://www.guampdn.com/story/news/2020/01/24/public-health-concerned-coronavirus-take-steps-prevent-illness/4561691002/