THE number of persons under investigation (PUIs) for the 2019 novel coronavirus acute respiratory disease (2019-nCoV ARD) in the country jumped to 382 on Tuesday from 314 a day earlier.

According to a Department of Health (DoH) situation report posted on its website, the confirmed cases remained at three.





The report said two PUIs have died.

The DoH earlier said the second PUI fatality died of pneumonia, not nCoV.

The first PUI death was that of a Chinese man who died of severe pneumonia and human immunodeficiency virus on January 29.

The situation report said 266 PUIs had been admitted to hospitals and 111 had been discharged.

Of the 266, Metro Manila has the highest number of PUIs, with 86 still confined at hospitals.

Central Visayas comes second with 49 suspected cases admitted at medical facilities, and Central Luzon follows with 31.

According to the Health department, most of the PUIs in the country are Filipinos.

“These are Filipinos who have come in contact with the known cases. Either [in] planes, hotels or [in] hospitals where they were admitted and who have shown signs and symptoms of fever, cough and respiratory illness,” DoH Undersecretary Eric Domingo told reporters on Monday.

A Chinese couple was the first and second confirmed cases in the Philippines.

The 38-year-old Chinese woman has already been discharged from the San Lazaro Hospital in Manila while her partner, a 44-year-old Chinese man, died of severe pneumonia caused by the novel coronavirus.

“The first case has already tested negative twice and has in fact been discharged,” Domingo said.

The third case involved a 60-year-old Chinese woman who returned to China after her second set of samples tested negative for nCoV.

Her first sample was found positive for the deadly virus after she traveled to China.

Meanhwile, Health Secretary Francisco Duque 3rd said there was “no evidence” that the new coronavirus can spread through the air, citing information from the World Health Organization (WHO).

“Ang sabi ng WHO, walang ebidensiya na nagpapakita na airborne ito. Tulad ng SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome), ang mode of transmission is [through] respiratory droplets (According to the WHO, there’s no evidence that shows the virus is airborne. Like SARS, its mode of transmission is through respiratory droplets),” he told radio dzMM.

Reports over the weekend cited a Chinese official who said the virus is airborne.