A 21-year-old Chinese student is likely to become the fifth person in Australia to be infected by the deadly coronavirus, health authorities say.

The federal government's chief medical officer Professor Brendan Murphy confirmed the woman is in isolation and had tested positive to the virus in preliminary examinations.

'She is in isolation until the final confirmation. But NSW Health feel she's likely to be the fifth case in the country,' Prof Murphy said.

Health authorities are now working to track down people the woman came into contact with and potentially infected.

The news comes after three men in New South Wales, aged 43, 53 and 35, and one Victorian man aged in his 50s, caught the deadly disease.

A 21-year-old woman has been taken to hospital after fears she may have contracted the deadly coronavirus

The virus, which experts fear will 'highly likely' continue to spread in Australia, has so far killed 56 people in China and infected 2,000 people worldwide.

Since the outbreak at the end of December, Chinese authorities have placed 56 million people in lockdown - including more than 100 Australian children aged between six months and 16 years old, the ABC reported.

Photos taken outside Westmead Hospital on Sunday show a woman wearing a face mask being moved by paramedics with protective gloves, masks and clothing.

Prof Murphy said there would likely be more cases in the country.

'There is no cause for general concern,' Prof Murphy said in Melbourne on Sunday.

'I would not be surprised if there are some more cases... it's highly likely that we may see some more.

'We are incredibly well prepared to isolate and deal with that.'

Emma Wei, from Melbourne, is trapped in Wuhan with her two children amid China's lockdown

Medical staff are seen wearing protective clothing outside a hospital in Wuhan after the coronavirus outbreak

CORONAVIRUS CASES IN AUSTRALIA NEW SOUTH WALES: 4 Four people in NSW have been diagnosed with coronavirus, including three men and one woman. January 25 Three men aged 43, 53, and 35 who had recently travelled to China are confirmed to have contracted the disease.

Two flew in from Wuhan while the other arrived in Sydney from Shenzhen, south China.

They are being treated in isolation at Westmead Hospital and are in stable condition. January 27 A 21-year-old woman is identified as the fourth person to test positive for the illness in NSW.

The woman, a student at UNSW, flew into Sydney International Airport on flight MU749 on January 23 and presented to the emergency department 24 hours later after developing flu-like symptoms.

She is being treated in isolation at Westmead Hospital. VICTORIA: 4 January 25 A Chinese national aged in his 50s becomes the first confirmed case of the coronavirus in Australia.

The man flew to Melbourne on China Southern flight CZ321 from Wuhan via Guangzhou on January 19.

He is now in quarantined isolation at Monash Hospital in Clayton in Melbourne's east. January 29 A Victorian man in his 60s is diagnosed with the coronavirus.

He became unwell on January 23 - two days after returning from the Chinese city of Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak.

The man was confirmed as positive on January 29 and was subsequently seen by doctors at the Monash Medical Centre. He was assessed as being well enough to stay at home. January 30 A woman in her 40s falls ill with the coronavirus.

She was visiting from China and mostly spent time with her family.

She is being treated at Royal Melbourne Hospital. February 1 A Melbourne woman aged in her 20s is at home recovering. She returned from Wuhan on January 25 and fell ill two days later. She was not infectious on the flight, and has remained in isolation since being tested. QUEENSLAND: 2 January 29 Queensland confirms its first case after a 44-year-old Chinese national wass diagnosed with the virus.

He is being treated at Gold Coast University Hospital. January 30 A 42-year-old Chinese woman who was travelling in the same Wuhan tour group as the 44-year-old man tests positive. She is in Gold Coast University Hospital in stable condition. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 2 February 1 A Chinese couple were placed in isolation in a public hospital. The man and a woman both aged 60, were from Wuhan and visiting relatives in South Australia. SA Health said the pair isolated themselves at home when they developed symptoms and awaited the results of the coronavirus test. Australia has raised the travel alert level to 'do not travel' for the city of Wuhan - the epicentre of the outbreak - and for the entire Hubei province. Chief Medical Officer Brendan Murphy says unless people have contact with someone who is unwell and has come from that part of China, there is no need for current concern.

In the wake of the rapid spread, Chinese-Australian parents are now desperate for their children to get out of Wuhan in China's Hubei province.

Yi Xu is demanding his six-month-old daughter be brought home to Australia.

'The Australian Government needs to follow what the US is doing [and] to charter a plane to evacuate its citizens for emergency,' Mr Xu told the ABC after reports the U.S was using a plane to evacuate Americans from the area.

A father from Melbourne, Nathan Wang, said his 11-month-old daughter is stuck in Wuhan with his wife and other child.

Mr Wang said his family was struggling to access medical resources.

'I can't even fall asleep. As a father, I was very desperate. I am guilty that all of the risks and pressure were put on my wife alone,' he said.

Another Chinese-Australian man said the children who were left stranded in the areas were being cared for by their grandparents.

'They are desperate to get out, because there starts to see a shortage of face masks and other protective supplies,' the man who only wanted to be referred to as John told The Australian.

'Many children are running out of baby formula powders soon,' he said.

The Australian government is now considering options to allow Australians in the infected areas to travel.

A China Eastern Flight from Wuhan arrives at Sydney International Airport on Thursday where health authorities were screening passengers for coronavirus

'The Government acknowledges the concerns of Australians who are in Hubei Province in China and the concerns of their families and friends,' Foreign Minister Marise Payne said in a statement on Sunday.

WHAT ARE THE SYMPTOMS OF THE CORONAVIRUS? Once someone has caught the virus it may take between two and 14 days for them to show any symptoms. If and when they do, typical signs include: a runny nose

a cough

sore throat

fever (high temperature) The vast majority of patients – at least 97 per cent, based on available data – will recover from these without any issues or medical help. In a small group of patients, who seem mainly to be the elderly or those with long-term illnesses, it can lead to pneumonia. Pneumonia is an infection in which the insides of the lungs swell up and fill with fluid. It makes it increasingly difficult to breathe and, if left untreated, can be fatal and suffocate people.

'The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade is working closely with Chinese authorities and international partners to consider possible assistance with travel for Australians from areas that are affected by Chinese travel restrictions.

'Given the circumstances of the spread of the Coronavirus, Chinese authorities are currently imposing very tight restrictions on all travel from Hubei. We are seeking advice from the Chinese authorities on these restrictions and whether any options are available to international travellers.

'Our Embassy in Beijing and our Consulate in Shanghai are also working with international partners and the Chinese government to determine what support can be given to Australians on the ground.'

Authorities are urging anyone who has travelled to the Wuhan region and experienced flu-like symptoms to contact their GP or local emergency department.

The patient in Victoria is a Chinese national aged in his 50s who flew to Melbourne on China Southern flight CZ321 from Wuhan via Guangzhou on January 19 on an A380 plane, which can can carry 500 passengers.

A passenger wearing a protective mask (pictured) is seen at Sydney Airport on Thursday, as a man in Melbourne is confirmed as the first Australian case of coronavirus

He became the first confirmed case of coronavirus in Australia on Saturday morning and is now in quarantined isolation at Monash Hospital in Clayton in Melbourne's east.

Earlier on Saturday a baby was rushed from Sydney Airport to hospital for testing and was later discharged cleared of the virus.

A Hobart man has tested negative for coronavirus on Sunday after he was admitted to the Royal Hobart Hospital on Saturday with mild respiratory symptoms.

The man in his 30s had travelled to China earlier this month and spent time Wuhan, where the coronavirus outbreak began.

He contacted a general practitioner with respiratory problems and was admitted into an isolation room in hospital while tests were conducted to rule out the infection.

Public Health services identified the man's contacts since returning to Hobart in case he had been identified as carrying the virus.

The man has been discharged from hospital after his results showed he was not infected.