Do you fans of Bernie Sanders actually think that socialism works? Then check out what's happening in China where it's version of socialism is killing people and threatening a world-wide pandemic of deadly coronavirus.

Yes, yes, I know. You say that Bernie's is talking about the type of socialism as practiced in Scandinavia and not the Chinese brand of communism.

But the argument is deceptive.* The essence of both forms of government is top-down, centralized decision-making. Both have their roots in Karl

Marx's dogma of utopian socialism in which government owns the means of production. Both consider you and everyone e lse to be the "masses" who need higher authority to make critical decisions.

And it is the cause of the mess in China and the deadly threat it has handed off to the rest of the world. Thank you very much.

In China, the top end of the power pyramid failed to recognize the threat that the coronavirus virus. Read how powers that be actually punished a doctor, Li Wenliang, who warned of the dangers, a doctor who ironically then died from the virus he caught while trying to save his patients. (Subscription may be required.)

Top-down decision-making failed to provide the tools to combat the disease. It's rushing to throw up hospitals overnight came too late. It has been forced to take drastic action, quarantining tens of millions of people in cities. The government censors are busy at work forbidding its (not so free) media from publishing anything about the epidemic that's not official government pronouncements.

And the latest disclosure by the New York Times:

C.D.C. and W.H.O. Offers to Help China Have Been Ignored for Weeks: Privately, Chinese doctors say they need outside expertise. But Beijing, without saying why, has shown no interest so far. Precisely the kind of closed and destructive society that is the spawn of socialism. By the way, stick a fork into the kind a Scandinavian socialism that Bernie says he's for. Read, "Bernie Sanders Dreams Of ‘Scandinavian Socialism.’ The Only Problem? It Has Long Since Failed" Marx believed that capitalism "contained the seeds of its own destruction." So far, we're still waiting. One thing made clear by the death of communism in the Soviet Union and the utter failure of socialism in Venezuela and the withering of socialism in Scandinavia, what's no longer up for debate is that socialism contains the seeds of its own destruction.

*This from History.com, talking about the similarities between the two:

Both socialism and communism are essentially economic philosophies advocating public rather than private ownership, especially of the means of production, distribution and exchange of goods (i.e. making money) in a society. Both aim to fix the problems they see as created by a free-market capitalist system, including the exploitation of workers and a widening gulf between rich and poor.

True, there are some differences the article discusses, such as communism is usually introduced through "revolution"--some that Sanders says, although we're not exactly sure what he's advocating. In purely Marxian terms, his "socialism" is the stage in history that comes before the communist utopia and his disciples in Russia and China used that thinking to justify the doctrinaire and violent suppression that was their nature.

dennis@dennisbyrne.net

www.dennisbyrne.net

My historical novel: Madness: The War of 1812

Want to subscribe to the Barbershop? Type your email address in the box and click the "create subscription" button. My list is completely spam free, and you can opt out at any time.