He and other health officials warned the source of the virus still had not been identified, and the way it is transmitted was not fully understood. It has been classified as a B Infectious Disease.

He also warned there was a risk the spread of the virus could accelerate. There are another 1394 suspected cases with patients under medical observation. There has been one confirmed case in Japan, three in Thailand, one in South Korea and one in Taiwan.

Loading

"We don't fully understand the virus. We are still in the process of understanding it and trying our upmost to contain it," Mr Li said when asked if the virus was highly contagious.

Reports of infected people now cover 13 provinces in China, confirming fears that the virus was spreading rapidly throughout the vast country as many citizens travelled home to see relatives for the holidays.

In Shanghai, where there have been nine reported cases, many pedestrians were wearing face masks as they finished up work for the holidays or went shopping for Lunar New Year gifts. Some parents kept their children out of school.

Health officials said the number of cases had increased dramatically because they were getting better at diagnosing the symptoms.

Most of the cases were reported in central China near Wuhan, a city of 11 million people where the virus was believed to have originated in a meat and seafood market. There were also reported cases in Beijing, Shanghai and other provinces throughout China.

Advertisement

Most of China's at least 440 cases were in the central city of Wuhan, where the virus was believed to have originated. Getty

Employees at large government-owned companies told The Australian Financial Review they were asked to inform their employers if they had travelled to Wuhan in the past month.

Authorities were also urging people not to leave the city. Airlines, train operators and travel companies were offering travellers full refunds on tickets to and from Wuhan.

One woman working for a pharmaceutical company said sales of surgical masks were being rationed as supplies ran out. Supplies of masks and disinfectant liquids were also selling out on online shopping platforms, where many people in China to their shopping.

The outbreak is the latest challenge for China's leaders, who attempted to present Beijing's handling of the outbreak as more open and transparent than the government cover-up of the SARS crisis. President Xi Jinping said earlier in the week that all measures must be taken to contain the virus.

The official death toll on Wednesday rose to nine from six, with hundreds hospitalised. Getty

However, there was rising criticism on social media on the way the Chinese government had handled the outbreak. Local authorites in Wuhan were accused of being slow to acknowledge the seriousness of the virus and were accused of initially trying to cover it up.

Advertisement

Local media said eight people were questioned by police in Wuhan earlier in the year for "spreading false information" after they warned on social media that the virus could be a repeat of SARS.

Many in China are sceptical of Beijing's assessment of the outbreak, given the government's track record downplaying SARS. The Hong Kong media were the first to report the extent of the spread of the virus, which had previously believed to be contained to Wuhan.

The outbreak is a potential threat to China's economic stability just days after Beijing secured a trade war truce with Donald Trump.

"We are concerned that the situation could worsen in coming months, as the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday is approaching.

"The current mortality rate could be underestimated given the early stage of the development of [the virus] and as there is no effective vaccine yet," Nomura's chief China economist Ting Lu said.