Sign up to FREE email alerts from Mirror - daily news Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A British dad in Wuhan, China, is too afraid to leave his flat in case he infects his nine-month-old daughter with deadly coronavirus.

The man, who is from Manchester and wished to be anonymous, has been living in isolation for a week with his wife and baby.

Neither parents has been diagnosed with the illness but fear coming into contact with anyone who may carry the deadly strain.

The 22-year-old told PA news agency: "My wife is staying positive but inside I can tell she's worried, we both are. We know that if our baby got sick she wouldn't make it and that's a horrible, dreadful feeling."

The family have not left their flat for a week, and are now rationing food to get through the outbreak.

(Image: Barcroft Media via Getty Images)

He said: "The flat bit isn't that bad, it's more the paranoia every time I go out in the corridor to empty bins or something like that.

"My wife's family gave us a lot of leftover meat and vegetables from the New Year's dinner we had. We think that will last us a few more weeks."

UK citizens stranded in Wuhan are being urged to contact the British consulate as part of repatriation plans.

Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said the Government is "working on" how to bring people home from the Chinese city.

(Image: Barcroft Media via Getty Images)

However, the father-of-one said he would not be leaving the city, as his wife is a local.

He did add that things seemed "more positive" today.

He said: "There's been a lot of talk today about some positive developments in treating sick people.

"Chinese media reported this morning that a pregnant woman infected with the virus was successfully treated and in recovery and that the baby was doing fine.

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)

"More and more of these small 'victories' are popping up now and that's why we're a bit more optimistic."

The family are among other British citizens in Wuhan who fear they could catch the virus.

Teacher Joe Armitt told Sky News: "I speak for the majority of British expat community in Wuhan when I say this is a scary situation.

"A lot of us are very scared - we're putting a brave face on it - but most of us are very scared and would like to be repatriated now.

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)

"I've been in contact with the Foreign Office and registered that I'm here and that I would like to return home as soon as possible."

Kharn Lambert, another British teacher in Wuhan, told Sky News there was "a lot of anger" over a lack of contact from UK authorities.

He said he and his 81-year-old grandmother, who is over visiting him, were stranded.

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)

His gran is also running out of the medication she needs for a serious lung condition.

Mr Lambert said: "It's getting pretty much into a serious situation for us now, so it's getting quite stressful.

"She suffers with COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) and she's running out of medication at the moment.

"[She has] probably enough medication to last another week and then we're struggling to find out what we can do after that."

The death toll in China currently stands at 106 with confirmed infections rising to more than 4,500 globally.

The deadly virus has now spread to at least 16 Chinese cities.

Wearing face masks in public is now mandatory in some Chinese cities.

On Monday, a 50-year-old man died from the virus in Beijing - the first death in the Chinese capital from the virus.