A viral outbreak that began in China has infected more than 75,000 people globally, according to the World Health Organization.

Pictures from across Asia and Europe show biosecurity checkpoints, disinfection, long queues to buy face masks and even demonstrations to demand a proactive governmental response to the risks of coronavirus spreading.

Extraordinary scenes of the human response to the outbreak have been captured by photographers as the disease spreads to Europe and elsewhere.

The members of a police sanitation team spraying disinfectant as a preventive measure against the spread of the COVID-19 coronavirus in Bozhou, in China's eastern Anhui province. STR/ AFP

A medical worker checking on patients with mild symptoms of the COVID-19 coronavirus in the temporary Fangcai Hospital set up in a sports stadium in Wuhan, in China's central Hubei province. STR/ AFP

Medical staff members from Shenyang bidding farewell with family members and friends before leaving for Wuhan, where a novel virus originally outbreak, at Xiantao International Airport in Shenyang in China's northeastern Liaoning province. STR / AFP

People wearing face masks walk down a deserted street in Wuhan in central China's Hubei Province. Arek Rataj/AP Photo

A worker wearing a face mask sprays disinfectant along a path in Wuhan in central China's Hubei Province. Arek Rataj/AP Photo

Funeral home workers remove the body of a person suspect to have died from a virus outbreak from a residential building in Wuhan in central China's Hubei Province. Chinatopix via AP

This illustration provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in January 2020 shows the 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV). This virus was identified as the cause of an outbreak of respiratory illness first detected in Wuhan, China. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention via AP

At the beginning of February Hong Kong closed almost all of its border crossings with China to stem the spread of coronavirus. Since January, 62 people were infected with coronavirus and two died.

Protesters hold up banners and placards during a "flash mob" gathering to demand the government close its border with mainland China to reduce the spread of the deadly SARS-like virus to Hong Kong. Anthony Wallace / AFP

People queue up to buy face masks at a cosmetics shop in Hong Kong, Kin Cheung/AP Photo

People queue up to buy face masks at a cosmetics shop in Hong Kong. Vincent Yu/AP Photo

South Korea has reported 15 new cases of the coronavirus infection on Wednesday, which brought the total number of confirmed cases to 46.

People in traditional Korean hanbok dresses wear face masks as they jump for a souvenir picture at Gyeongbokgung palace in Seoul. Jung Yeon-je / AFP

Imperial guards wear protective face masks during a reenactment of the Royal Guards Changing Ceremony in front of Deoksu Palace in Seoul, South Korea. 30 January 2020. Ahn Young-joon/AP Photo

Employees work to prevent a new coronavirus at a subway station in Seoul, South Korea. Ahn Young-joon/AP Photo

Japan has confirmed 99 more people are infected aboard the quarantined cruise ship Diamond Princess, bringing the total amount of cases to 454.

A bus carrying passengers leave the port after passengers disembarked from the quarantined Diamond Princess cruise ship in Yokohama, near Tokyo. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong) Jae C. Hong/AP Photo

Women in traditional Japanese kimonos wear face masks to help prevent the spread of the SARS-like virus as they read their fortunes, known as O-mikuji, at Sensoji temple in Tokyo. Behrouz MEHRI / AFP

At the beginning of February, the Philippines reported the first death from coronavirus outside mainland China. On 19 February, three people in the country are reported to be infected.

Arriving passengers and airline crew wear protective masks at the international airport in Manila. Ted Aljibe/ AFP

On Monday, 17 February, the last 44 of evacuees was allowed to leave a quarantine facility in the South of France. Earlier, around 200 French citizens have been placed there after they arrived back from Wuhan, the epicentre of the epidemic. The evacuees were held under armed guard at a holiday camp where they were free to walk around inside but were obliged to wear medical masks. According to the latest figures, France has 12 confirmed cases of coronavirus infection and one death.

A worker in a protective suit holds paperwork before an evacuation flight for EU nationals at Wuhan Tianhe International Airport in Wuhan in central China's Hubei Province. Arek Rataj/AP Photo

Workers wearing protective suits gather near a plane carrying evacuees from Wuhan, China, after their evacuation flight landed at an airport in Marseilles, France. Arek Rataj/AP Photo

Passengers being checked as they disembark from a plane carrying French citizens flown out of the coronavirus hot-zone in Wuhan, upon their arrival at the Istres-Le Tube Air Base in Istres, southeastern France. AFP PHOTO / ECPAD / EMA

A worker wearing a protective suit checks the luggage of an evacuee from Wuhan, China, after their evacuation flight landed at an airport in Marseilles, France. Arek Rataj/ AP Photo

A special flight brought 312 Bangladeshis back from Wuhan, including eight who were hospitalised with high temperatures. The government says about 5,000 Bangladeshis study in China.

A passenger from Beijing is screened as part of measures to prevent coronavirus infection at Hazrat Shahjalal International airport in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Al-emrun Garjon/AP Photo

In Vietnam, the authorities have advised students to wear masks to school. As of 19 February, Vietnam confirmed 16 people were infected with the virus.

Teacher and students wear masks during class in Dinh Cong secondary school in Hanoi, Vietnam. Hau Dinh/AP Photo