The video will start in 8 Cancel

Sign up to FREE email alerts from Mirror - daily news Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A woman who recently returned from Wuhan has been barricaded inside her own home by Chinese authorities, it has been reported.

Distressing footage shows a group of masked men fitting thick metal bars in front of her door as she screams and yells from inside her house.

While one sticks a sign on the wall, others hold long metal bars.

The sign reads: "This family came back from Wuhan. Stay away, no contact."

In the clip, some of the men can be seen filming the scene and taking pictures while they take turns to isolate the family.

They all wear masks as they gather all together inside the building.

The men take turns to hold the bars as one fits them to the door.

(Image: Twitter)

Chinese authorities have been accused of leaving people to "starve and die" after videos of the practice carried out "to stop the spread of coronavirus" have emerged.

The clip, which was sent to Metro, is believed to have been filmed in Nantong, in the Jiangsu province, but censorship laws in China make it difficult to trace it.

Chinese human rights activist Fengsuo Zhou said he had seen similar videos in other locations across the country.

He said: "People are feeling desperate and angry. The Chinese government is more focused on censorship than public welfare because they know their credibility is challenged.

(Image: Twitter) (Image: Twitter)

"They have covered up the crucial information too long. Doctors were censured by police for talking about the pandemic one month ago."

Another video posted on Twitter shows a similar scene filmed in an apartment block.

Coronavirus has killed 304 people in China since it was first detected in the central city of Wuhan late last year.

(Image: Twitter)

The total of infected people in the country is 14,380, China’s National Health Commission said today.

The virus, which has been declared a global public health emergency, has caused at least 100 infections in more than 20 countries.

Britain, Russia and Sweden have confirmed their first infections over the weekend.

Japan has recorded 20 cases so far.

A 44-year-old Chinese man from Wuhan died at a hospital in Manila, in the Philippines, making this the first reported death outside China.

He appears to have been infected before arriving in the Philippines.