"We believe that through close communication and cooperation between China and Georgia, we will be able to prevent and control the new coronavirus,” Chinese Ambassador to Georgia, Lee Yang, said at a news conference today.

As the Ambassador noted, Georgia has taken some temporary measures to prevent the outbreak, including canceling direct flights and banning the import of live animals from China, adding that the country does not need to worry excessively about the spread of the infectious disease.

“In the wake of the epidemic, the Georgian side has taken some preventive measures, such as monitoring passengers' body temperature at airports, etc. We believe that through close communication and cooperation between China and Georgia, we will be able to prevent and control the disease. The Georgian people have a rational attitude towards the epidemic and express their sympathy for China.

"At the same time, however, false and unfriendly statements against the epidemic and China have appeared on the media and social networks. Rumors and false information are more dangerous than a virus. In the fight against the epidemic, the people throughout the world are a society with a common destiny, standing together. In addition, Georgia has taken some temporary measures to prevent the outbreak, including canceling direct flights and banning the import of live animals from China.

"I would like to emphasize that Georgian people do not need to be excessively nervous. The World Health Organization has made clear that travel and trade restrictions with China are not recommended. We hope that Georgia will abolish these interim measures as soon as possible to ensure the ordinary flow of trade between the two countries and the development of ongoing projects to jointly promote the continuous and healthy development of China-Georgia relations and practical cooperation in various fields," she said.

"We will continue to maintain close communication and cooperation with the international community, including Georgia, to defeat the epidemic in the shortest possible time," the Ambassador added.

"The epidemic has already had some negative impacts on China-Georgia traffic, visits and imports and exports and may also affect the pace of current large-scale transport infrastructure projects. China will continue to maintain close communication and cooperation with the international community, including Georgia, to defeat the epidemic in the shortest possible time.

"We once again call on the Georgian side to carefully review the temporary restrictive measures already taken to minimize the damage that could be caused by the epidemic in terms of cooperation between the two countries in various fields," she emphasized.

In January, Georgia temporarily suspended flights with China due to the growing risk of the spread of coronavirus (2019-nCoV).

In addition, passenger flow in local airports decreased by 3% in January compared to the same period of last year, Georgian Airports Association of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development reported today, one of the reasons for which, along with Russian flight ban imposed by President Putin in July 2019, is the suspension of direct flights to and from China as a preventive measure against the spread of the new coronavirus.

By Ana Dumbadze

10 February 2020 17:31