1. Coronavirus death toll in China crosses 400-mark

China said it would welcome assistance from the United States to fight a coronavirus outbreak, a day after it accused Washington of scaremongering, and as the death toll rose on Tuesday by a new daily record to more than 420. The toll in China rose to 425 as of the end of Monday, up by a record 64 from the previous day, the National Health Commission said on Tuesday. All of the new deaths were in central Hubei province, the epicentre of the virus outbreak. READ FULL REPORT

2. Kapil Mishra says Owaisi will also chant Hanuman Chalisa

BJP leader Kapil Mishra, who has already received a warning from the Election Commission for his provocative slogans, has now said that even AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi will chant the Hanuman Chalisa after Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal. In a tweet on Tuesday, just days ahead of the Delhi assembly elections, Kapil Mishra has said, "Kejriwal has started reading the Hanuman Chalisa, now Owaisi will also start reading it." READ FULL REPORT

3. PM Modi, Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi to address election rallies in Delhi

Campaigning ahead of the high-voltage Delhi assembly elections are heating up with just days left for the big fight between the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), BJP and Congress. Today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is leading the BJP campaign in Delhi will address another election rally in Dwarka. On the other hand, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi will also be hitting the streets and campaign in Sangam Vihar on Tuesday. FOLLOW LIVE BLOG

4. Parliament to see heated debate between govt and Opposition

The Opposition is set to take on the government today in the Parliament on issues related to the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Population Register (NPR). The Opposition, on Monday, cornered the Centre over multiple issues including firing incidents in Delhi. The Lok Sabha had on Monday started amid sloganeering as controversial remarks by BJP leaders Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma and the ongoing anti-CAA protest at Shaheen Bagh figured prominently. FOLLOW LIVE BLOG

5. Prithvi Shaw to make his ODI debut vs New Zealand, confirms Virat Kohli

Prithvi Shaw who replaced injured opener, Shikhar Dhawan, in India's ODI squad for the New Zealand series is all set to make his debut in the format as confirmed by captain Virat Kohli on Tuesday. Prithvi Shaw came into the side after regular opener Shikhar Dhawan was ruled out of the series after injuring his shoulder in the matches against Australia. READ FULL REPORT