The S&P 500 is on track for another new all-time high here on Thursday morning as worries about Iran and trade with China have disappeared. The quick resolution of what some political pundits were calling World War III left the bears with little ammunition for fighting the uptrend.

The irony of the market action in recent months has been that buyers have jumped in every time there was a drop on a negative headline. Twice in the past week, aggressive buyers pounced on a weak open and sent the indices sharply higher the rest of the day.

This has largely been "climbing a wall of worry" action. For this dynamic to work there are two necessary elements. The first is the presence of concerns that are making investors hesitant about trusting the market. In the current market, there have been issues such as the China trade talks, impeachment, some economic slowing and Iran. The bears have used all those arguments and more to craft reasons why the market is going to top out and start to trend down.

The second necessary element for the market to climb a wall of worry is idle buying power. There needs to be cash sitting on the sidelines that is looking for better returns. The Fed has provided a huge pile of cheap cash with its "not quantitative easing" repo actions lately.

The thing that occurs when the market is climbing a wall of worry is those market participants who are sitting on the sidelines due to the negative arguments grow frustrated as the market refuses to pullback, so they start to deploy some of that idle capital. That incremental buying causes the indices to move higher and that entices more buying from those folks that don't trust the market.

If there wasn't so much cheap capital created by the Fed this "wall of worry" action would not function, but there is just too much cash out there and too many folks who are tired of missing out as the indices keep making new all-time highs.

With China and Iran no longer major issues the question now is whether there is a new worry that will help this dynamic to continue. The main worry now isn't something in the headlines, but that underinvested market players are missing out on a market that is going to continue to trend higher.

Negative news has been an automatic buy signal recently, so we have to wonder If the lack of negative news may lead to a market reversal. There is a high likelihood that a market reversal will occur intraday on no obvious news. The buying will simply stop because there isn't a worry that is holding anyone back.

With all the recent bearish narratives in shambles, there is a high level of frustration among skeptics. They may give up, not because they think that the market won't go down but because they no longer want to battle action they find to be irrational.

The wall of worry is crumbling, but the supply of liquidity remains strong. There is little choice but to stay with the trend until we see some shift in the price action.