- Bill Gates has made his concerns over the potential impact of the coronavirus in Africa abundantly clear

- The Microsoft billionaire says the continent's health systems would be overwhelmed

- Gates says the situation could evolve into a pandemic, causing over 10 million deaths worldwide

PAY ATTENTION: Click “See First” under the “Following” tab to see Briefly.co.za News on your News Feed!

Bill Gates has warned of the 'very, very dramatic' potential havoc the coronavirus could wreck in Africa.

The Microsoft founder expressed his concerns that African health systems could become overwhelmed by the outbreak, believing the virus is a greater threat than ebola:

“This disease, if it’s in Africa it’s more dramatic than if it’s in China, even though I’m not trying to minimise what’s going on in China in any way. Will this get into Africa or not and if so, will those health systems be overwhelmed?"

Speaking to The Telegraph, Gates said the coronavirus could evolve into a pandemic, resulting in more than ten million deaths across the world.

READ ALSO: Coronavirus spreads to Africa: Egypt officially confirms first case

Bill Gates has warned of the "very, very dramatic" potential impact of the coronavirus on the African continent, according to a report in The Telegraph.

He said African health systems may be overwhelmed and believes that the virus is more concerning than ebola:

“If you look at ebola, most of the excess deaths were caused because the health service shut down. It’s not just the direct effect, it’s also the panic, the overload, and the things that effect health workers, because you’re already at very limited capacity.”

Briefly.co.za reported that Africa's first confirmed case had been noted recently, with concerns that other cases may not have been reported.

The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation donated R147 million towards the efforts to contain the outbreak.

Half of the support given would go to the response in China, with the other half going to the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention.

Enjoyed reading our story? Download BRIEFLY's news app on Google Play now and stay up-to-date with major South African news!