The mysterious coronavirus has taken 18 lives and infected more than 630 people across China, Thailand, Japan and most recently the United States, raising concerns of a pandemic.

Airports around the world are ramping up their passenger screening, using thermal scanners to detect clues of infection in travellers, in particular those travelling from China, where the outbreak started.

Scientists believe from an early study that the outbreak may have spread to people through snakes sold at a Wuhan seafood market.

Here’s what is known so far:

What is coronavirus?

The coronavirus is a general term for a family of viruses that are transmitted through the air. The virus primarily infects the upper respiratory and gastrointestinal tract of mammals and birds, scientists report in the Conversation. Members of the coronavirus family range from a common cold or flu, to the more deadly MERS (Middle East respiratory syndrome) and SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome), the latter of which was at the centre of a deadly outbreak 17 years ago.

The current strain is a novel coronavirus, meaning that is has previously not been identified in humans, and it’s being referred to as 2019-nCoV.

In 2002 and 2003, a worldwide outbreak of SARS saw more than 8,000 people sickened and 774 dying globally (44 in Canada). Of the 8,000 infected, a total of 438 were Canadian.

The coronavirus is commonly found in animals and it’s rare for the virus to be transmitted to humans, the CDC reports. With SARS and MERS, field studies found the two viruses originated in bats before being passed on to masked palm civets and camels respectively. Both SARS and MERS are classified as zoonotic viral diseases, meaning the first patients who were infected acquired them directly from animals.

Where did the outbreak originate?

The current outbreak originated at a seafood market in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, where 11 million people live, in December. Aside from typical ocean fare, there have been reports that processed meats and live consumable animals, including poultry, donkeys, sheep, pigs, camels, foxes, badgers, bamboo rats, hedgehogs and reptiles, were also sold at the market in question.

A group of scientists looking into the origins of the outbreak have concluded that humans received the virus from snakes sold at the market, according to an early study published in the Journal of Medical Virology. It’s believed that bats, common prey for snakes, are the origin animal in question.

After health authorities in the region became aware of the growing outbreak at the end of December, the seafood market was shut down and disinfected on Jan. 1.

What are the symptoms?

Clinical signs and symptoms include mainly fever, with a few people reporting that they have difficulty breathing and suffer from pneumonic infiltrates, which is a dense liquid that fills the lungs.

The World Health Organization has confirmed human-to-human transmission has occurred, but it’s not clear if the virus is easily transmitted.

Nearly three-quarters of people infected are over the age of 40, with 40 per cent of sufferers already having existing underlying conditions.

How has it spread?

Since news broke of the outbreak two weeks ago, 17 people in Wuhan have died and more than 630 people have contracted the disease. On Thursday, health authorities confirmed an 18th death — the first outside the outbreak’s epicentre. The 80-year-old man lived in Hebei, a city nearly 900 kilometres north of Wuhan.

Authorities at the epicentre have issued travel bans and effectively shut down the city of Wuhan on Thursday. In the evening, the city of Huanggang, 75 kilometres away, also issued a lockdown. The two cities with a combined population of 18 million people have barred inhabitants from air, train, ferry and subway travel.

So far authorities in Japan, Thailand, the United States, Vietname and South Korea have confirmed cases of coronavirus, and there are worries that the outbreak might worsen and become deadlier as many Chinese prepare to travel for Lunar New Year at the end of the month.

Is it a risk to Canada?

Currently, the Public Health Agency of Canada has issued a Level 2 advisory for travel to Wuhan. That means Canadian travellers should take additional vaccinations, on top of avoiding high risk areas. They should dodge contact with live or dead animals, maintain good hygiene, and cough and sneeze only into a tissue.

Canadians coming from China who experience flu-like symptoms are required to notify a border services officer, or to tell their doctor if they become ill after returning to Canada.

“Planned additional measures to be implemented over the coming week include messaging on arrival screens at the Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver international airports reminding travellers from Wuhan to inform a border service officer if they are experiencing flu-like symptoms and an additional health screening question to be added to electronic kiosks,” the health authority told National Post in an email.

What precautions should be taken?

There is currently no vaccine for the new coronavirus, but the World Health Organization is warning people to avoid contact with others who have acute respiratory infections, to avoid being around dead animals, and to only eat thoroughly cooked meat and eggs.

The WHO said Thursday it’s too early to declare the outbreak a global health emergency.

With files from The Conversation, Reuters and Aaron Derfel.