Robin Goist

The Plain Dealer

CANTON, Ohio — With an arrest Thursday morning, authorities have captured three of five inmates who escaped from a Canton correctional facility last week, but two remain at large.

Members of the U.S. Marshal’s Northern Ohio Violent Fugitive Task Force and Canal Fulton Police Department arrested Michael Fisher, 30, Thursday morning in Canton, the U.S. Marshal’s Service said in a news release.

Fisher, of Massillon, and four accomplices broke a first-floor window and escaped from the Stark County Regional Correction Center between the night of Feb. 10 and morning of Feb. 11, the release said.

Jaden Miller, 23, of Carrollton was arrested Feb. 12 in Carroll County by the Carroll County Sheriff’s Office. Joshua Bingham, 36, of North Canton was arrested Feb. 14 by the U.S. Marshal’s task force and Canton police.

Canton police have also accused Fisher in connection with an aggravated robbery on Feb. 15, according to a police report. A mutual friend allowed Fisher into the 39-year-old victim’s home on the 400 block of McKinley Avenue NW, and Fisher assaulted her and stole a cell phone and money, police said.

The task force tracked Fisher to a home on the 1300 block of Stark Street SW in Canton and arrested him Thursday without incident, the Marshal’s Service said.

“Our task force worked closely with the Stark County Sheriff’s Office and the Canton Police Department to track this fugitive down," U.S. Marshal Pete Elliot said. "Our officers will continue to work diligently to capture the two remaining fugitives.”

The task force continues to search for Vincent Blanc, 24, of Canton and Jason Drake, 39, of Waynesburg.

The Marshal’s Service said anyone harboring or assisting the inmates could face criminal charges.

During the search for the escaped inmates, a sixth inmate went missing from the correctional facility after she failed to return from a supervised personal visit. She came back to the facility within two days, police said.

The correctional facility on Lesh Road houses adults convicted of low-level felonies in Stark, Holmes, Tuscarawas and Wayne counties, according to the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Corrections. Inmates may be sentenced there as an alternative to a prison sentence, or in addition to prison time.