Tavist D. Chester, 25, a father of three and veteran, is accused of killing 22-year-old Nigel G. Jackson outside the Canton bar May 12.

CANTON The accused gunman in a fatal bar shooting told a jury Thursday he had feared for his life in the months leading up to the incident.

Tavist D. Chester, 25, of 1361 Crescent Road SW, testified for the better part of two hours during his trial in Stark County Common Pleas Court.

Chester is accused of killing 22-year-old Nigel G. Jackson outside R Bar & Grill at 1117 Wertz Ave. NW following a fight inside the bar early in the morning on May 12.

Chester has pleaded not guilty to aggravated murder, murder and three counts of felonious assault. Each charge carries a specification alleging Chester used a gun to commit the crime.

Defendant testifies

Chester is a married father with three children, a homeowner and veteran who worked as a mail carrier. He also had a permit to carry a concealed weapon.

During questioning by his attorney, Laura Mills, Chester said he went to R Bar with his cousins and had been inside only minutes when someone hit him in the back of the head. A fight ensued and Chester was pulled outside the bar, as shown by video from bar security cameras.

Chester said he yelled to his cousins to leave the bar and ran to his pickup. Before entering the bar, Chester had hidden his .40-caliber pistol atop one of the truck’s tires.

Chester told the jury he grabbed the gun and tried to get into his truck, but the door was locked and his cousin had the keys.

Chester then walked back toward the bar. He said he knew the bar had security cameras and he was afraid someone would attack him in the dark.

Around the time his cousins pulled up with his truck, Chester fired several shots from his pistol.

Chester said he started shooting because a man named Antonio Wallace, who was in the bar that night, was pointing a gun in his direction. Chester said he didn't know how many shots he fired, but said he didn’t believe any of them hit Jackson, who was struck by three .40-caliber bullets.

"I just was squeezing," Chester said.

Police found shell casings of three different calibers at the scene.

Under cross examination by Assistant Stark County Prosecutor Michael Bickis, Chester acknowledged he could have kept walking away from the bar, but said he was looking out for his cousins.

February incident

The jury also heard about the history between Chester and Wallace.

Back in February, Chester had gone to a different bar with three acquaintances, one of who was thrown out for fighting with Wallace. As the group traveled to another nightspot, someone shot up Chester’s truck. He was wounded and one of his passengers fired back at their assailant.

Chester told the jury that Canton police told him that Wallace, a convicted gang member, was probably the person who shot him.

There were more threats after the February incident, Chester said, and he began carrying a gun, even on his mail route.

"I was watching my back all of the time," he said.

The defense called Wallace to testify, but he refused, citing his constitutional right not to incriminate himself. Wallace is serving up to four years in prison after pleading guilty in October to participation in a criminal gang and weapons charges related to the shooting at R Bar.

The trial is scheduled to continue Friday before Common Pleas Judge Natalie R. Haupt.

Reach Shane at 330-580-8338 or shane.hoover@cantonrep.com

On Twitter: @shooverREP