United States and Iran Unlikely to Escalate to World War III:

Alagi Yorro Jallow

FATOUMATTA: President Donald Trump is a creation of the media and as usual they are all gaga over him. They are not pointing out to Americans the asymmetry in this escalation. They are not linking this dangerous act to a desperate attempt at changing the topic from his impeachment. When he turns around calling them fake news, they will be crying uncle. America is not safer with the killing of Soleimani. He is only fighting Saudi Arabia’s war of dominance. Time will tell where this lead

Hours after President Trump won the election, he made enquiry about using nuclear weapon. The world knows he is not a measured human being. He is itching to plunge the world into war. His impeachment sets him off, closer to the edge. In a rogue, thoughtless act of military adventurism, he targeted and killed General Soleimani. Killing Soleimani. Soleimani heads the most effective force fighting ISIS and other terror franchises in Syria. His killing is a dangerous and foolish escalation.

There is no doubt that Soleimani was an enemy of the United States. Assassinating him and creating the possibility of a regional war that can engulf the world is a far more disastrous option. Unfortunately, the Vietnam draft dodger who did not know the difference between Quds and Kurds is our Commander in-chief, whose order must be obeyed.

Fatoumatta: The current conflict between the US and Iran is of no consequence? Of course not! The killing of the Iranian general Soleimani was an act of great folly on the part of the US. An escalation of the current conflict between the US and Iran will inevitably lead to immense human suffering across the world. Especially in ‘soft target’ countries that are perceived, rightly or wrongly, to be close allies of the US. Sadly, the ‘soft targets’ tend to be poor and developing countries.

Iran and the US (read ‘Iran and the West’) have had many other conflicts before. In fact, the Western World has always had a hostile animus towards Iran since the Islamic revolution of the late 1970s. Relations between the two sides have always been marked by sanctions, attempts at regime change and many other provocative actions on the part of the US and its Western allies.

The previous World Wars revolved around German challenge of Anglo-French hegemony in global affairs. Germany was only able to challenge Anglo-French hegemony in global affairs after matching (and arguably overtaking) Britain and France in terms of industrialization, economic development and military capabilities. German renaissance, the precursor to the two World Wars, had begun much earlier (following the unification led by Otto Von Bismarck), but this is a story for another day. What is important for this prognosis is that the dynamic of an emerging superpower challenging the global hegemony of the reigning superpower is lacking in the current standoff between the US and Iran. Some analysts will, of course, point out that Russia and China might offer covert assistance to Iran in the event of breakout of an all-out war between the US and Iran. The lived experience tells us that such ‘covert assistance’ does not usually allow an armed conflict to escalate to a world war. That is why previous armed conflicts between Iraq and Iran, the US and Vietnam and the Six-Day War in the middle east, among others, did not escalate to World Wars. A day might come, in the distant future, when one of the emerging global powers (China, India etc.) might be tempted or constrained to engage the United States in a direct military conflict. When that day comes, it will mark the beginning of World War III;

The two World Wars were, at the core, about international trade and international economic relations. The adoption of ‘beggar-thy-neighbor’ trade and economic policies was the main catalyst for the two World Wars. The most notable of those polices included competitive currency devaluations and obscene tariffs and other barriers to trade by the then global powers. Though imperfect and grossly unfair to most of the world, especially the third World, the GATT/WTO and the Bretton Woods systems have somehow worked to prevent the emergence of another World War. To sum this aspect of the prognosis, there is nothing in the current conflict between the US and Iran that would upset or distort economic relations among global or regional military powers so seriously as to trigger a third World War. There is of course the small matter of oil prices. A serious conflict between the US and Iran could suck in OPEC members and other oil producing countries and lead to a surge in international prices for crude oil, with serious knock-on effects on the economies of many countries. The lived experience, however, is that previous conflicts have led to a surge in oil prices without resulting in a World War.

The geographical location of Iran does not permit an open military conflict with the US. Iran is too close, geographically speaking, to Russia and China. There is also the issue of geographical proximity to Israel, Saudi Arabia and other Western allies. In fact, geography may be the biggest single explanation of why the US and other Western powers have never declared war on Iran since the Islamic revolution.

Fatoumatta: What will Iran do next? Will it block the world most important choke point – the Strait of Hormuz or will it bid its time? The United States has lost every war since Vietnam except Operation Desert Storm. No matter how it spins it, Iraq was a disaster foretold. Afghanistan proved its mettle as the graveyard of foreign forces. Will Iran be different? Will European allies heed Trump if this escalates?