Crime & Punishment of Monday, 3 February 2020

Source: Graphic.com.gh

Chinese accused of sexual assault flees country

A Chinese accused of sexually assaulting a four-year-old has fled the country after jumping bail.



Huang Yanzang, has been charged with indecent exposure after he allegedly held the hands of the girl to touch his penis.



The incident was said to have happened in Tema on December 23, 2019.



Yanzang, who was on a police enquiry bail and due to appear at the Tema Circuit Court on last Tuesday, did not appear when the case was called.



It later emerged in court that he had fled the country.



The case was first called on January 21, this year. However, the suspect failed to show up with the excuse that he was sick. The case was then adjourned for a week.



Father of the victim, (name withheld) who was in court, told the Daily Graphic after the day’s proceedings that he was distraught at the development.



He wondered why the bail conditions were not stringent enough and why the police failed to seize the passport of the accused.



Arrest



Yanzang was arrested by the police on December 23, 2019 after parents of the victim, a four-year-old girl; a Kindergarten pupil, had lodged a complaint that he had sexually assaulted the young girl.



He was later granted bail and processed for court.



The mother took the victim and her 14-year-old sister to a salon to braid their hair.



After having their hairs braided, they stepped out of the salon, while their mother was inside having a discussion with the owner of the salon.



Yangzang allegedly approached the victim and complimented her. The suspect then sat in a chair, unzipped and held the girls hand to touch his penis.



The elder sister was said to have raised an alarm leading to the arrest of the suspect.



The case was lodged at the Tema Community Two Police Station.



Posture



The girl’s father said he was also displeased with the posture of some of the police personnel handling the case. He said initially, they told him and his wife that since the accused did not harm the victim, they should settle the matter before it went to court.



He said some of the police personnel led the accused to his house to apologise, something he found extremely troubling.



According to him, his daughter had been seriously traumatised to the extent that any time she saw a foreigner, she tried to hide.



He, however, said with the help of a psychologist, she was gradually recovering from the traumatic event.



The father of the victim indicated that he would pursue the matter to its logical conclusion.



Still pending



The Community Two District Commander, Chief Superintendent Daniel Ohene Djan, when contacted, maintained that the case was pending before the courts.



He, however, indicated that if it was true that the suspect had jumped bail, the sureties would be asked to produce him.



Chief Supt Djan said an arrest warrant could also be issued for Interpol to have him arrested and brought back to Ghana.



