Three people are being tested for suspected coronavirus in Scotland, the Scottish Government have confirmed.

Professor Jurgen Haas said he believes there will be many more cases from other cities in the UK.

Tests are currently being carried out and none of the patients have been confirmed as having the disease.

They all travelled to Scotland from Wuhan, where the outbreak is thought to have originated, within the past two weeks and are showing symptoms of respiratory trouble, a red flag for the virus.

READ MORE: Coronavirus outbreak: what you need to know

Professor Haas earlier told the PA news agency: "We have currently three cases suspected Wuhan coronavirus in Edinburgh and as far as I understand one case in Glasgow."

He said the cases emerged overnight, adding: "The situation will be pretty similar in pretty much all UK cities with a large number of Chinese students.

"It's not too surprising. My suspicious is that there will probably be many more cases in many other cities in the UK.

"None of the cases I know of have been confirmed."

He said there is only one laboratory testing for the virus, operated by Public Health England (PHE).

The professor said the cases have been flagged up through the PHE infection guidelines as they travelled to Wuhan within the last 14 days and are showing signs of respiratory symptoms.

The disease has killed 17 people and infected nearly 600.

The Chinese Government has effectively locked down Wuhan, cancelling planes and trains there and in the nearby city of Huanggang.

Earlier, Nicola Sturgeon told MSPs the Scottish Government is "closely monitoring" the situation.

The First Minister said: "I should say, that the risk to the public here in Scotland - and indeed the UK - is currently classified as low but that is kept under review.

"Health Protection Scotland are liaising with NHS boards and are currently in daily contact with Public Health England, we're also liaising daily with colleagues in the UK Department of Health - we're also paying very close attention to the advice and the decisions that come from the World Health Organisation."

READ MORE: NHS 'well-prepared' for coronavirus, says Hancock, as China intensifies safety measures

She added: "Advanced monitoring measures are being put in place for flights between Wuhan City and Heathrow, that will involve each flight being met by a port health team who will check for coronavirus and provide information to all passengers.

"We're currently considering whether there is any further information that could be provided at Scottish airports.

"This is an evolving situation which we will monitor extremely closely and the Health Secretary and I will make sure that Parliament is updated in the days and weeks to come."