Tom Seaman, editorial director of Undercurrent News, brings you a roundup of the main stories from the previous week.

The most-read stories list on Undercurrent News last week was dominated by the chaos in China's seafood sector caused by the new coronavirus. However, Jason Smith's blog from Aquaculture America 2020 garnered most attention.



During Aquaculture America, held this year in Honolulu, Hawaii, Jason revealed that Whole Oceans, the recirculating aquaculture system farmer planning to grow as much as 20,000 metric tons of Atlantic salmon annually, plans to start construction very soon.

According to Jennifer Fortier, the company’s outreach and development associate, Whole Oceans is in the middle of its “pre-construction” phase. The first phase will include the hatchery building, the south grow-out building and water treatment facilities.

“This will take us up to about 10,000t. When we are comfortable with that we will construct our north grow-out building to double our production to 20,000t,” she said.

Also, The Kampachi Company, a Mexico-based firm growing seriola rivoliana, in pens four miles off the coast of Baja California, revealed its growth plans. According to CEO Jorge Schmidt, the company currently has a biomass of 1,200t in the water and began its sixth production run of the fish a few weeks ago.

“It takes us about half the time that it takes for salmon or seabass, seabream to get to the size for the market because it grows in warmer waters,” Schmidt said of its fish, which are being marketed under the King Kampachi brand name.

Click here for the blog.

Coronavirus blog

Our live coronavirus blog also got a lot of attention last week, as the death toll in China rises and its impact on the seafood sector becomes apparent.

The largest salmon farming company in the world, Mowi, has closed its factory in China, as the coronavirus has decimated demand, reported NRK, citing Finansavisen. Ivan Vindheim, CEO, said the company is following the situation closely and Mowi is following the advice of the governing powers.

"The Chinese market has stopped completely,” he said. The plant normally employs 50 staff.

Also, Diversified Communications, the organizer of Seafood Expo North America, released another update regarding the impact of the coronavirus on the upcoming event, Seafood News reported.

Diversified expects to see an “impact in participation from mainland China”. The show, which is set to run from March 15 – 17 this year, attracted more than 22,000 seafood industry professionals in 2019. Based on their stats, China represents about 5% of the combined visitor and exhibitor attendee base, as well as 9% of the exhibit space.

Click here for the blog.

Coronavirus hits India’s shrimp trade, small players most at risk

India's growing shrimp export trade with China has been thrown into disarray by the coronavirus outbreak in the country, as the country's shrimp exporters have been forced to look elsewhere to sell now surplus material, Dan Gibson reported from the India International Seafood Show in Kochi.

Speaking with multiple processors and traders at the show, Dan learned that prices had already dropped by as much as $0.50 per kilogram of headless shrimp.

A trading source put current prices for headless vannamei shrimp at $6.60 for 31-40 pieces per kilo, $6.20 for 41-50, and $5.80 for 51-60; the full effects are not likely to be felt until market activity fully resumes following the Chinese New Year holiday, however.

Another Undercurrent processing source said that unless the outbreak was handled within the next couple of weeks, its effects would also likely put a dent in total annual production for the year -- currently projected to reach 800,000t.

Click here for the full story.

Peru stops seafood shipments to China due to port logjam

Peru has stopped exports to China of fish for human consumption, the country's committee of fisheries and aquaculture of the national society of industries (SNI) said on Feb. 13, Matilde Mereghetti reported.

SNI's president, Carlos Milanovitch Nieto, announced that all fishing companies that export seafood for human consumption will stop exporting to China and other Asian countries due to coronavirus. Peruvian exports of fish for human consumption to China exceeded $300 million by the end of 2019.

Milanovitch said that many Chinese ports have been declared in quarantine and thus closed to commercial traffic. He said this has affected thousands of containers of seafood, fruit and all kinds of food products shipped from Chile, Peru, and Ecuador.

"In Peru, we have exporters who have shipped their frozen products to China and other destinations such as Taiwan, Cambodia, Indonesia and Vietnam that call at Chinese ports, which have been closed to commercial traffic for health reasons," he said.

He revealed there are hundreds of containers stranded in China and many others on the water that must be re-routed to avoid arriving at a closed Chinese port.

Click here for the full story.

Cold storage at Shanghai, Tianjin ports ‘full’ as coronavirus hits China seafood logistics

Meanwhile, cold storage warehouses in Tianjin and Shanghai -- two of the world's busiest ports -- are "full", according to the Maritime Bureau of China's Ministry of Transport, and shipping companies are advised to send goods to alternative locations.

According to a Feb 12 announcement, shipping companies docking at Shanghai port may face congestion fees or be re-routed to other ports in China, Louis Harkell reported.

"Cold storage capacity at Shanghai port is currently full," said the notice, which was shared with Louis by an industry source in China. "Valued customers abroad who have not yet sent goods, for the time being, do not send goods to Shanghai port."

A separate announcement said cold storage in Tianjin port is also full.

Shipping companies are advised to send containers to ports in Shekou, Ningbo, Taican or elsewhere. The advice is "effective until, tentatively, Feb. 28", said the first announcement.

According to World Shipping, Shanghai port is the world's busiest port while Tianjin is the world's ninth-busiest.

Click here for the full story.

Local authorities in China say ‘hold on’ as tilapia processors look to reopen

Severe travel restrictions to control the spread of coronavirus in south China are preventing staff from returning to seafood processing plants after Lunar New Year, industry sources told Louis Harkell.

A 14-day quarantine period for returnees and reduced rural public transport means many workers are extending Lunar New Year holidays and staying at home, several processing companies confirmed to Louis last Wednesday, putting export trade on hold.

China is the world's largest tilapia producer with exports of the farmed fish worth some $660m in 2018, according to Chinese figures.

Several firms told Louis they are waiting for permission from local governments to reopen.

"All tilapia factories here [in Hainan] still can not confirm when they will begin production," a source at a tilapia processor in Hainan told Louis. "[This is] due to especially low return-to-work rate and strict measures by local government for factories who want to restart."

Click here for the full story.

Environmental groups sue to block Cooke’s Washington state steelhead trout farms

Four environmental advocacy groups have filed an action against the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife (WDFW) in state court as part of an effort to block Canadian aquaculture giant Cooke from growing steelhead trout in netpens in state waters, reported Jason Huffman.

WDFW, in late January, approved a five-year permit request by Cooke Aquaculture to farm sterile, female triploid, rainbow trout in Puget Sound, where the company suffered a mass escape of Atlantic salmon in August 2017, as reported earlier by Undercurrent.

The permit applies to existing net pens in Puget Sound where Cooke holds valid aquatic land leases with the Washington Department of Natural Resources (DNR). This includes four pens currently operating near Rich Passage and Skagit Bay, but may later extend to three other net pens owned by Cooke.

WDFW said it approved the permit following an extensive State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) public comment period, which saw more than 3,500 comments submitted.

But if Friends of the Earth, Wild Fish Conservancy, the Center for Biological Diversity and the Center for Food Safety have their way, Cooke will never realize its new plan.

Click here for the full story.

Marubeni wants in on Cooke, Ocean Beauty Alaska salmon consolidation plans

Canadian seafood giant Cooke is in talks for a complex deal with Ocean Beauty Seafoods, but my sources understand Japanese conglomerate Marubeniis also now on the fringes.

Marubeni, which owns North Pacific Seafoods in Alaska, is looking to play a part in the consolidation in the Alaska salmon sector being negotiated between Cooke and Ocean Beauty.

Cooke and the owners of Ocean Beauty, the Bristol Bay Economic Development Corporation and a group of individual investors, reportedly led by Howard Klein, are looking to merge their Alaskan salmon operations, sources told me. North Pacific is not said to be part of the initial deal, but could come into play in the future, as part of an even larger joint venture, sources said.

Despite the focus on the wild salmon side, the goal of Cooke is to also acquire Ocean Beauty’s large distribution and smoked salmon operations. However, sources were unsure if this would be part of the initial deal or another step. Ocean Beauty’s distribution business is said to be around $200m in sales, with the smoked in the $70m range, sources said.

Click here for the full story.

‘Exciting’ with the chance of ‘burnout’: CP Foods’ McIntosh details US shrimp plans

There was a traceable hint of skepticism in the voice of Robins McIntosh when Jason Smith asked him about the excitement surrounding the nascent US land-based salmon industry.

RAS projects have faced great difficulty thus far in finding long-term success, said McIntosh, executive vice president at Charoen Pokphand Foods' (CPF) and widely considered to be a shrimp farming pioneer. While Norway's Atlantic Sapphire and Nordic Aquafarms are moving ahead with their ambitious RAS salmon farming plans, in Homestead, Florida, and Belfast, Maine, respectively, the projects' long-term prospects remain unproven.

“We really don’t know how successful RAS salmon is going to be talked about in two to three years from now. Shrimp, there has been many attempts. And they all fail. There hasn’t been anybody profitable yet,” McIntosh said.

It begged for a follow-up question: Can't the same be said about CPF's plans, through its Homegrown Shrimp USA, to build a land-based shrimp facility?

McIntosh's answer: “Yeah, but I’m not doing it the way they’re doing it.”

Click here for the full story.

Trade insights: China becomes world’s biggest shrimp importer by volume

China's imports of shrimp almost tripled to 718,000t in 2019, seeing it overhaul the US to become the world's largest importer by volume, according to Chinese customs data compiled by Louis Harkell.

The surge amounts to 462,000t more shrimp imported than in 2018, and follows a drop in undocumented transshipment of shrimp through Vietnam and increase through Chinese ports.

The value of full-year imports came to $4.44 billion. The year was capped by record December imports of 97,000t.

Click here for the full story.