Special Assistant to Prime Minister on Health Dr Zafar Mirza on Thursday said that there is no recommendation issued by the World Health Organization (WHO) to its member countries to evacuate its citizens from China.

Addressing a press conference along with Foreign Office Spokesperson Aisha Farooqui, Dr Zafar Mirza said the government has decided not to repatriate Pakistani citizens stranded in China in accordance with the recommendations of the WHO. “We believe that right now, it is in the interest of our loved ones in China to stay there. It is in the larger interest of the region, world, country that we don’t evacuate them now,” he said. “This is what the WHO is saying, this is China’s policy and this is our policy as well. We stand by China in full solidarity,” he declared. “So far, China has not allowed evacuation [of people],” he said. “You will, of course, remind me the United States has evacuated its diplomatic staff – not all citizens. This is a condition of the Vienna Convention which dictates that the host country can allow diplomats to leave if their country wishes for them to return,” he explained.

Mirza said WHO has appreciated the efforts of the Chinese government in handling the coronavirus disease. He said the WHO has released certain instructions and advised its member states on the disease. “Pakistan is strictly following these instructions which means we have to deal with the possibility of spread of this disease as a national emergency and all those measures must be taken as the national emergency is required,” he said.

He said that four Pakistanis students who tested coronavirus positive in China are in good state of health and are being taken care very well. However, until now there is no reported case in Pakistan, he added.

He said that the government has established national emergency operation centre and activated national task force on international health regulations besides creating national coronavirus emergency core committee in which all ministries and sectors were represented. He said that SOPs have been developed to manage the inflow of the international passengers and to examine some signs and symptoms in order to put those suspected people under observation besides isolating them in designated healthcare facilities and screening at ports of entry. He said the government has reinforced its facilities for screening at the ports of entry. He said that emergency operation cell at the federal health ministry is monitoring the situation round the clock. “Let me assure the people that the government is closely monitoring the situation and all necessary measures are being taken to screen all travellers from China and providing hospital-care where required,” he said.

He said coronavirus is a new respiratory virus first discovered in Wuhan, Hebei province of China on January 7 this year. He said so far 170 Chinese have lost their lives due to the virus. He advised all Pakistanis staying in China to register themselves with the Pakistani Embassy in Beijing through its website to have updated information and instructions. Foreign Office Spokesperson Aisha Farooqui said that the main focus of Pakistani Embassy in China is to provide best possible assistance to Pakistani citizens and students. She said the embassy is creating awareness among Pakistani community through its website and video messages of ambassador to prevent people from carrying the virus. She said Pakistan is in constant touch with the Chinese authorities to ensure safety of its nationals and the contact persons of Pakistan embassy were available at hotline for any assistance.

She said Pakistan has decided to open Khunjerab Pass with China in April, instead of its previous decision for an early opening, following the outbreak of coronavirus.

As per agreement between Pakistan and China, the Khunjerab Pass is closed in November due to heavy snowfall and reopens in April. She said the change of decision for an early opening of border was part of health safety measures.

She said Pakistan is in constant touch with the Chinese authorities to ensure safety of its nationals and the contact persons of Pakistan embassy are available at hotline for any assistance. She said Pakistan embassy in Beijing has contacted all students registered in its database, while those not registered, are appealed to approach dedicated telephone lines.

Of stranded Pakistanis in Urumqi, the spokesperson said the reason is delay in flight, however the Chinese authorities have been requested to arrange accommodation till the next available flight.

She said the government had set up a technical core committee with all stakeholders to regularly monitor the situation and make immediate plans to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The National Institute of Health has already issued an advisory and alert on coronavirus to all provincial health departments and especially points of entry including airports and border crossings.