By Daya Gamage – Asian Tribune Investigative Analysis

Washington, D.C. 17 January (Asiantribune.com):

This online daily was somewhat amused when Washington sent a Trump White House official who had a track record of being associated with the ideology of Sri Lanka’s onetime separatist outfit Liberation Tigers of Tamil Tigers (LTTE/Tamil Tigers), and an advocate of militarization of the Indo-Pacific region to accompany a state department official to meet Sri Lanka’s newly inaugurated president Gotabaya Rajapaksa and his brother Mahinda Rajapaksa, a former president now the newly installed prime minister, both of whom who gave the leadership to defeat the outfit in 2009 and kept a distance from Washington during their former (2005-2015) regime.

The Trump envoy has also gone on record the importance of militarizing the Indo-Pacific region while stressing the geo-strategic location of Sri Lanka and that Washington should bring in Sri Lanka for maritime cooperation.

The Trump White House official who met the Sri Lanka political leadership was Lisa Curtis, deputy assistant to President Donald Trump and Senior Director for South and Central Asia on the U.S. National Security Council.

Her presence in Colombo to meet the top two leaders of Sri Lanka is at a time Washington is seriously extending its military might in the Indo-Pacific region in which Sri Lanka is considered a ‘willing partner’ in the military endeavor to meet the Chinese expansion. Sri Lanka has already expanded the 2007-signed Acquisition and Cross-Services Agreement (ACSA) to an 83-page agreement signed by the previous Sirisena administration in August 2017.

It has been reported that the three ladies, the other two being Alice Wells, acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs in the U.S. State Department and the American ambassador in Colombo Alaina Teplitz, have advocated ethnic reconciliation, human rights and rule of law when discussing the proposed Millennium Challenge Corporation Compact around other issues.

When ethnic reconciliation and human rights issues along with ‘open and free Indo-Pacific region’ are raised when Lisa Curtis is on an official U.S. delegation, the Asian Tribune investigation goes back to 2013 when Ms. Curtis was associated with a group of congressmen and Sri Lanka bashers who founded a Congressional Caucus for Tamil rights and expose Sri Lanka’s violations of human rights and International humanitarian law. She is one of the leading officials in the Trump White House who is associated with the administration’s military buildup and expansion in the Indo-Pacific region, and in every document released by Washington advocate that its endeavor was to maintain the region ‘open and free’ and dividends, the documents note, are to ‘enhance economic opportunities, promote human rights and rule of law”.

The significance of Washington sending Lisa Curtis is – as well known to those who monitor the trajectory of the Trump administration – that the administration since its advent in January 2017 has put the State Department to a level that its influence and power are degraded. Ms. Curtis is the Trump White House official who has more authority on policy formulation for the South Asian region to which Sri Lanka belongs.

Having noted the importance of Lisa Curtis, she brings what she learned and comprehended about Sri Lanka during the Eelam War IV and thereafter.

In early December 2013, a Congressional Caucus was created to address Ethnic and Religious Freedom in Sri Lanka, and objective of the Caucus was to bring the attention of the American lawmakers and public of the status of Tamils in Sri Lanka and their plight. The Caucus was initiated by Republican Congressmen Bill Johnson and Democratic Congressman Danny Davis.

Lisa Curtis who was then with the Heritage Foundation as a South Asia expert was one of those who led the panel in December 2013 at meeting convened at the Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C.

Who is Congressman Danny Davis with whom she collaborated to convene this gathering? During the height of the war, Mr. Davis traveled to Sri Lanka’s northern region to confer with top leaders of Tiger leader Prabhakaran.

Davis' trip to Sri Lanka from March 30 to April 5, 2005, spending most of his time in the regions of the Vanni and Kilinochchi Districts, controlled by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, was in fact funded by the Liberation Tigers, it was revealed by federal authorities, according to an August 23 datelined report in Chicago Tribune.

According to the Chicago Tribune report Davis had believed that the trip was paid for by the Tamil federation, which in accordance with congressional ethics rules sent to him a written statement of travel expenses, more than US $7,000 each for Davis and his aide, Daniel Cantrell. Congressman Danny Davis said he knew that the group was "associated" with the Tamil Tigers but did not realize that the trip's costs were covered with the funds controlled by the (Sri Lanka) rebel group.

Davis' seven-day trip to Sri Lanka's Tamil Tiger territory came under scrutiny following the arrests of 11 supporters of the Tamil Tigers in New York on charges of participating in a broad conspiracy to support the terrorist group through money laundering, arms procurement and bribery of U.S. officials, the Chicago Tribune reported.

Also associated in this December 2013 endeavor at a meeting room in the U.S. Congress was former American ambassador (2000-2003) to Sri Lanka Ashley Wills who was one of the prime movers of the infamous 2002 Cease Fire Agreement between the Ranil Wickremasinghe government and the Tamil Tigers which gave a breathing space to the Tigers to build their military capacity.

Another participant was, possibly not very well known to the authorities in Sri Lanka, was Nimmi Gowrinathan, an activist of Tamil issues from the time the Tamil Tigers were running 'affairs' in the North and East of Sri Lanka. In fact, she was the 'brain' behind this Caucus and the supplier of documents and data about the situation in Sri Lanka and the 'plight of the Tamils' in the north-east of this South Asian nation.

Lisa Curtis who visited Colombo to meet President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa on January 14 had close association with the above personalities.

Ms. Curtis’ role in pushing Washington to militarize the Asia-Pacific region goes back to her days when she was in the Heritage Foundation as an Asia expert.

It is here that her presence in Colombo has a significant bearing.

In her June 9, 2016 testimony, as senior research fellow of the Heritage Foundation, to the U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific, Lisa Curtis proposed a policy recommendation to the United States Government: “Focus on enhancing maritime cooperation. Sri Lanka occupies a pivotal position in the Indian Ocean Region, and Washington must intensify its naval cooperation with Colombo through increased consultations, training, and exercises. The U.S. should welcome and, if possible, foster closer naval ties between Colombo and New Delhi in order to check Chinese naval ambitions in the region”.

She is now in the Trump White House to do just that.

During that testimony Ms. Curtis’s mind-set and sentiments about Sri Lanka were clearly manifested in the following manner: “Steps toward devolution—which lie at the heart of the ethnic question—will be impossible unless the government engages in a major campaign to build public support for the constitutional changes, especially among the Sinhalese population in the south. Many Tamil observers doubt that the government is committed to pushing for such consequential changes, and believe, instead, that the push for constitutional reform may be a whitewash set up for failure”.

She further noted, “Human rights activists also have questioned whether the U.S. is overestimating the level of change at the grassroots level and giving too much credit to the government when there are still major human rights concerns among the Tamil”.

Foreign Policy

She declared: “Another notable shift by the Unity Government (meaning Sirisena government) has been in the country’s foreign policy orientation. Already mentioned was the outreach to the U.S. There has also been a marked shift toward better balancing relations between India and China”.

She further said: “There had been criticism of the Rajapaksa government’s cozying up to China and questions surrounding the large-scale infrastructure projects that were pursued during his tenure. The Rajapaksa regime had relied heavily on China for investment and military equipment. During the Rajapaksa years, China became Sri Lanka’s biggest donor, provided fighter jets, weapons, and radars to the Sri Lankan military, invested in a major $1.4 billion Port City Project in Colombo, and pledged to invest $1 billion to develop the port at Hambantota. Sri Lanka’s willingness to allow Chinese submarines to dock at Colombo’s port twice in late 2014 alarmed Indian officials, who are wary of China’s increasing influence in its backyard. India fears that Chinese investment in South Asian ports not only serves Chinese commercial interests, but also facilitates Chinese military goals”.

In another testimony in the U.S. Congressional hearing before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission held on March 10, 2016, a year before Lisa Curtis joined the Trump administration; this was her mind-set on military assistance and human rights when she discussed Sri Lanka:

“South Asian nations, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, for example, view good ties with China as a way to serve as a counterweight to Indian dominance in the region. And while the U.S. seeks to leverage its engagement and aid in these South Asian nations for greater human rights and democracy, Chinese assistance comes with no strings attached. For instance, China provided substantial military aid to the Sri Lankan government in the final years of the civil war with the LTTE at a time when the U.S. and India were curtailing their military supplies because of human rights concerns. Sri Lanka's willingness to allow a Chinese submarine to dock twice at Colombo port in late 2014 alarmed Indian officials. Sri Lanka has since toned down its relation with China following the defeat of the Rajapakse regime in 8 January 2015, and the new President Sirisena has said that Colombo will balance its approach between India and China.

“China's interests in South Asia are essentially threefold. First, China seeks to promote stability and security in both Afghanistan and Pakistan in order to curb the influence of Islamist extremists and prevent them from spreading their influence to western China. Second, China wants to enhance relations with the other nations of South Asia, including Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and the Maldives, as part of a broader diplomatic effort to extend its influence, but also to access trade and energy corridors through the region to Europe and the Middle East”.

The endeavor of the Asian Tribune here is to let the policymakers in Sri Lanka knowledgeable of various moves that depict Washington policy planks for South Asia in which the United States expect Sri Lanka to be part of those. The principal personality who steers Trump administration’s policy toward South Asia is none other than Lisa Curtis who occupies an influential position in the Trump White House National Security Council.

Following the military bond between Washington and New Delhi cemented on December 18 in Washington with the participation of foreign and defense ministers of the two countries at the 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue, both the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate overwhelmingly ratified on January 14, 2020 Indo-Pacific Cooperation Act of 2019.

The Asian Tribune carries the full text of that Act for the comprehension of Sri Lankan authorities to judge the significance of the arrival of Lisa Curtis, Deputy Assistant to President Trump and Senior Director for South and Central Asia on the National Security Council. This scenario goes with the 83-page ACSA, and the SOFA and MCC Compact which are under scrutiny of the Gotabaya Rajapaksa administration.

S.2547 - Indo-Pacific Cooperation Act of 2019

116th Congress (2019-2020)

Senate - 01/14/2020 Passed Senate with an amendment by Unanimous Consent.

This Act may be cited as the ``Indo-Pacific Cooperation Act of 2019''.

FINDINGS.

Congress makes the following findings:

(1) Congress supports the finding on the People's Republic of China articulated in the 2018 National Defense Strategy and the 2017 National Security Strategy.

(2) The Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-409) established the policy of the United States ``to develop and commit to a long-term strategic vision and a comprehensive, multifaceted, and principled United States policy for the Indo-Pacific region'' so as to advance United States national security, economic, human rights, and other regional interests, and for such purposes, Congress has authorized appropriate funding.

(3) The People's Republic of China is leveraging military modernization, influence operations, and predatory economics to coerce neighboring countries to reorder the Indo-Pacific region to the advantage of the People's Republic of China.

(4) As the People's Republic of China continues its economic and military ascendance, asserting power through a whole of government long-term strategy, the People's Republic of China will continue to pursue a military modernization program that seeks Indo-Pacific regional hegemony in the near-term and displacement of the United States to achieve global preeminence in the future.

(5) A critical objective of the defense strategy of the United States is to set the military of the People's Republic

of China on a path toward transparency and nonaggression.

(6) The People's Republic of China uses economic inducements and penalties, influence operations, and implied military threats to persuade other countries to heed the political and security agenda of the People's Republic of China.

(7) United States allies and partners are critical to effective competition with the People's Republic of China.

STATEMENT OF POLICY.

It is the policy of the United States—

(1) to expand military, diplomatic, and economic alliances and partnerships in the Indo-Pacific region and with Europe and like-minded countries around the globe that are critical to effective competition with the People's Republic of China;

(2) to develop, in collaboration with such allies and partners, a unified approach to addressing and deterring

significant diplomatic, economic, and military challenges posed by the People's Republic of China; and

(3) to promote, in partnership with like-minded countrie around the globe, the values of democracy and human rights.Passed by the Senate January 14, 2020.

- Asian Tribune –