Tribune News Service

New Delhi, January 16

India will extend an invite to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan to attend the next annual meeting of the council of heads of government (HoG) of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) to be held here later this year.

In downward spiral May 2014 : PM Narendra Modi invites Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif for his swearing-in

July 2015 : Modi meets Sharif at Ufa, Russia

: Modi meets Sharif at Ufa, Russia Dec 25, 2015 : Modi makes stopover in Lahore to wish Sharif on his birthday and takes part in the wedding celebrations of his granddaughter Mehrun Nisa.

: Modi makes stopover in Lahore to wish Sharif on his birthday and takes part in the wedding celebrations of his granddaughter Mehrun Nisa. Jan 2016 : Pak-based ultras attack Pathankot base

Sept 18, 2016 : 20 die in Uri Army camp attack

Sept 28-29 : India conducts strikes across LoC

Feb 2019 : Bomber kills 40 CRPF men in Pulwama

Feb : India suspends cross-border trade, bus services

Feb : India carries out airstrikes on Balakot terror camp

This is the first instance of diplomatic civility since ties between the two nations entered an extended period of deep freeze after the Pathankot airbase attack in January 2016.

Sources, however, suggested that India was being compelled to invite Khan because under the SCO charter, hosts are obliged to invite all other seven members. This was the case when India hosted a SCO meeting on cyber-security in Hyderabad shortly after the Balakot retaliation. Representatives from India and Pakistan have sat across the table at numerous SCO platforms but have not engaged in any substantial discussions.

A few days earlier, SCO Secretary-General Vladimir Norov had visited India to double-check whether India would stick to the established convention. In fact, it was Norov who had announced last year that India would be given the first opportunity to host this meeting over Pakistan though both countries had joined the SCO together in 2017. This meeting of SCO heads of government is second in importance to the SCO heads of state summit but sets the template for the more high-profile meeting attended by the likes of Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping.

“According to protocol and convention, an invitation will be extended to the Pakistani PM. It is up to Pakistan whether their PM or some other representative attends the meeting. Besides, there is still a long time before the meeting,” said official sources.

India has followed the practice of sending the External Affairs Minister or another senior Cabinet Minister for such HoG meetings while PM Modi travels for the more high-profile SCO heads of state summits. Unless the bilateral climate improves dramatically, the expectation here is that Pakistan will ask Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi to attend the meeting.

The SCO consists of India, Pakistan, China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. It also has four observer states — Afghanistan, Belarus, Iran and Mongolia and six dialogue partners — Azerbaijan, Armenia, Cambodia, Nepal, Turkey and Sri Lanka.

India has imparted a distinct flavour to the SCO by refusing to fall in line on the issue of endorsing China’s Belt and Road Initiative.

Breakthrough at SCO

In the past too SCO summit provided platform to India, Pakistan to break bread. After the Mumbai attacks of 2008, then PM Manmohan Singh had met Pak President Asif Zardari on the sidelines of an SCO summit in Moscow in 2009.

Matter of protocol

“According to protocol and convention, an invitation will be extended to the Pakistani PM. It is up to Pakistan whether their PM or some other representative attends the meeting,” say sources.

Eight-member bloc

The SCO consists of India, Pakistan, China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. It also has four observer states Afghanistan, Belarus, Iran and Mongolia.

Opposed to China’s BRI

India has imparted a distinct flavour to the SCO by refusing to fall in line on the issue of endorsing China’s Belt and Road Initiative.