Oppo Find X2 is anticipated to be unveiled at MWC next month in Barcelona, meaning admirers of the Shenzhen tech firm may only need to wait few weeks to see what it has in store. Expectations for the Find X2 are sky high, primarily because the original Find X pushed the industry forward with its innovative pop-up selfie camera system and luxurious design that remains arguably the best on a smartphone to date.

Last month Oppo shed light on a few details about the Find X2 at its scheduled Innovation Day in Shenzhen. The company confirmed the new flagship will be powered by Qualcomm’s brand spanking new Snapdragon 865 chipset and is 5G-ready, putting it in prime position to give Samsung’s Galaxy S11 a run for its money. Oppo is also placing a heavy emphasis on the Find X2’s display, which makes sense seeing as the original was one of the first truly all-screen smartphones to launch. This led many Android fans to speculate the firm could debut its under-screen camera technology on the device. Last year Oppo showed off a concept phone that placed its selfie camera underneath the display. Express.co.uk went hands-on with it and was eager to praise its slick design and overflowing ambition. However, the technology is still a work in progress – the segment of pixels in the display located above the camera are slightly larger than on the rest of the phone, meaning a small square on the panel is noticeable from certain angles, especially if you’ve got an app loaded up that embraces white colours. Although that doesn’t severely detract from the overall user experience, it seems Oppo knows the technology is still too early to debut in a flagship product. Brian Shen, the Vice President and President of Global Marketing at Oppo, recently took to Twitter to state it’s “unlikely” the Find X2 would not come with an under-display selfie camera.

Oppo Find X2 is anticipated to be unveiled at MWC next month in Barcelona

The original Oppo Find X is still arguably the best-looking phone you can buy

He said: “Considering the obstacles of making a smartphone mass production ready, it's unlikely we will see an under-screen camera in Oppo FindX2, as many have asked. “The screen on Oppo FindX2 will still be a key focus for the device along with a lot of other industry leading features.” Although the Oppo Find X2 won’t come with a futuristic under-display camera, the Galaxy S11 isn’t expected to either. That means the main battle between the two phones will come down to design, performance, battery life, cameras and price. No pictures of the Find X2 have leaked so far, meaning we have absolutely no idea what the phone could look like. That said, if Oppo is able to build on the superb aesthetic of the original Find X, the device could outclass the S11 in the looks department. Then there’s the camera. The Galaxy S11 has been tipped to be Samsung’s first phone with a 5x optical zoom – it’s also rumoured the phone will come with a whopping 108-megapixel main sensor and of course have ultra wide-angle capabilities.

Trending