Economic stimulus measures earlier this week can’t calm global markets as commodities fall

Corn down 5-7 cents

Soybeans down 5-6 cents, soyoil down $0.64, soybean meal up $1.2

Chicago & Kansas City wheat down 2-3 cents, Minneapolis wheat up 3 cents

*Prices as of 2:30pm CST.

Corn: Corn prices followed global stocks lower with May futures falling $0.0575 to $3.76 to end the week.

Cash corn prices were mostly steady today, though a processor in Cedar Rapids cut $0.05 from basis to $0.06 below May futures prices. A Union City, Iowa ethanol plant also weakened their cash bid $0.02 but continued to offer bids at a premium over May futures by $0.33.

USDA announced two private export sales of corn this morning. Details are as follows:

Japan bought 9.2 million bushels of U.S. corn for delivery in the 2019/20 marketing year.

An unknown buyer purchased 8.3 million bushels of corn also for delivery in the 2019/20 marketing year.

News of the corn purchases was welcomed after weak corn export results were posted in yesterday’s weekly export report from USDA.

The Trump administration went back on its intentions to scale back biofuel waivers for small oil refineries and directed the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to appeal a recent refinery waiver (SRE) ruling that sought to reduce the EPA’s authority to grant biofuels exemptions for small refineries. Biofuel credits slumped 15% on the news.

The Trump administration has allowed nearly four times the number of SREs, causing a 16% drop in ethanol prices and the closure of at least 20 ethanol plants in the Midwest since September 2018. After a conversation with Senator Ted Cruz of Texas on Thursday, President Trump flipped on his position on SREs less than a week after touting his support for the American farmer via a video message at the 2020 Commodity Classic in San Antonio.

Soybeans: Cheaper Brazilian soybean prices and reduced purchases from China drug the soybean complex lower to end the week. May futures lost $0.0575 to $8.9125 today though May soybean meal futures prices rose $1.2 to $305.1. May soybean oil futures prices were down $0.64 to $28.75.

Soybean basis fell at processors who had made purchases earlier this week when a futures price rally incentivized farmers to book sales. Basis rose a cent on the Mississippi River at terminals in Illinois and Iowa.

Cash soymeal offers at rail markets followed futures prices lower today on weak demand as many livestock producers go into the weekend well-stocked on feed rations.

Soy exports out of Brazil will start to pick up again just in time for the completion of the record-setting soybean harvest. Heavy rains in port cities caused shipment delays, though a drier forecast will alleviate shipping backlogs. In fact, Brazil could double its February export volume through the month of March if weather conditions improve enough. The Brazilian soybean harvest, expected to top out at over 2.59 million bushels, is about halfway finished.

The coronavirus outbreak could represent a demand shift away from animal proteins in the Chinese diet, according to a Bloomberg report. A spike in interest in vegan products in China highlights a new desire to reduce dependence on animal-derived proteins after the source of the coronavirus was believed to be a live-animal market in Wuhan. The African swine fever (ASF) epidemic also remains fresh in the state’s mind as state-backed companies have begun offering partnerships with vegan food production companies to mitigate supply chain disruptions caused by animal production.

The new Chinese vegan craze should not come as a shock to U.S. growers, however. The trade war forced China to reevaluate its relationship with suppliers in a manner that may not benefit American grain farmers. As the largest consumer of agricultural products, the Politburo used the trade war to diversify their supplier base to ensure food availability and stability to their population. While they will likely continue to respond to market pricing, Jason Grant of Virginia Tech University explained at the USDA Agricultural Outlook in February, they are moving quickly – and without concern to the U.S. farm economy – to steel their food supply against shocks like the trade war, ASF, and coronavirus.

Wheat:

Minneapolis wheat built off this morning’s gains, posting a $price change gain on the day to $price amount. Chicago and Kansas City wheat did not fare as well after following global stocks lower on coronavirus concerns. The ICE Dollar Index dropped 0.94% today, capping any significant losses to the wheat complex going into the weekend.

Spot basis bids on soft red winter wheat ended the week unchanged from yesterday. Cash prices for hard red winter wheat in the Plains held steady today. Prices were not enticing enough to Plains farmers to book new sales, though warm weather was enticing enough for them to start fieldwork for corn planting.

Protein premiums on hard red winter cash wheat delivered to or through Kansas City by rail were unchanged from Tuesday, as shown below:

Weather: Clear weather and moderate temperatures will be enjoyed by most areas of the Corn Belt through the weekend. A precipitation system containing a wintry mix will move out of areas of the far Eastern Corn Belt late this evening, according to NOAA's short-range forecast, paving the way for a pleasant weekend throughout the Midwest.

Financials: The February jobs report released this morning signaled strength as 273,000 new jobs were added to the economy last month. Data was reported in mid-February and does not account for the increase in jobs in the health and sciences sector or the potential tightening of wages to buffer against the economic fallout of the virus. The unemployment rate of 3.5% indicated a robust economy prior to coronavirus fears taking hold of markets in late February. There is a strong likelihood March’s reports could hold more bearish sentiments for the labor force due to the virus.

The strong jobs report could not offset nagging coronavirus fears in the global market as Dow futures plummeted nearly 700 points to close the week at 25,489 points.

The energy complex ended the day significantly lower. The April light crude oil futures contract led the bleeding, dropping just over 10% or $4.60/barrel to close the week at $41.30/barrel. April ultra-low sulfur diesel futures prices were 6.85% lower to $1.3865/gallon.

The 10-year T-Bond continued to flirt with unprecedented lows as it posted a yield of 0.734%. Lower interest rates may provide valuable refinancing opportunities. Could a balance sheet restructure benefit your operation? Kyle Stackhouse writes now is a perfect time to sit down with your lender to discuss refinancing possibilities in today’s Between the Fencerows column.

Daylight savings time (DST) begins this Sunday as we spring an hour ahead into sunnier evenings. But we pay a steep price for that extra daylight. Increased car crashes – as high as an 8% jump the Monday following DST – rack up a social cost of $275 million a year. Acute cardiovascular episodes increase 24% the Monday after DST begins. So, make sure to take care of yourself and your family this weekend to mitigate the effects of the precious hour of sleep that will be lost. On the bright side, one study found a 7% decrease in robberies after the start of DST, a $59 million savings to U.S. society.

USDA’s planting intentions report is released March 31. Farm Futures is conducting a survey on acreage intentions to provide you with information to adjust your marketing plans before the report. To participate in the survey, please click on this link. Thank you for your help!