Q&A with NASA astronauts Presented by Northrop Grumman

Quick Fix

— Q&A: Astronauts Anne McClain and Nick Hague talk about the Commercial Crew Program, the importance of international cooperation and how Little Earth went viral.

— Trump's mysterious SpaceX announcement.

— At least 10 administration officials to take the stage at Commercial Space Transportation Conference.

A message from Northrop Grumman: Space isn’t just for exploring. It’s for robotic satellite servicing and package deliveries. It’s for intelligence, surveillance, communications, and early warning. It’s for living, roving, and building. At Northrop Grumman, it’s for all of the above. Find out more about how we’re defining possible in space. Click here.

WELCOME TO POLITICO SPACE, our must-read briefing on the policies and personalities shaping the new space age in Washington and beyond. Email us at jklimas@politico.com, bbender@politico.com or dbrown@politico.com with tips, pitches and feedback, and find us on Twitter at @jacqklimas, @bryandbender and @dave_brown24. And don’t forget to check out POLITICO's astropolitics page here for articles, Q&As, opinion and more.

Space Q&A

IF YOU WANT TO GO FAR, GO TOGETHER. After last weekend’s successful in-flight abort test, SpaceX is on track to launch humans to space from American soil for the first time in almost a decade. But just because the U.S. no longer needs to rely on the Russian Soyuz rocket to bring its astronauts to space, as it has since 2011, that doesn’t mean the two space agencies should end their partnership., said Anne McClain, an astronaut who recently spent six months on-board the International Space Station.

“It's amazing [to be] able to launch from Florida again on American rockets with American astronauts, but while still maintaining the international piece,” she told POLITICO. “We don't want to continue a dependency, but we actually need to continue a cooperation because the future is international in space. We're going to go to the moon, but we're going to go internationally.”

For some astronauts, the in-flight abort test was a little more personal. Astronaut Nick Hague’s first flight to the International Space Station ended abruptly when his capsule was ejected from the rocket and pulled to safety after a problem during the launch -- the same capability SpaceX proved it can do last weekend. “You're traveling 4,000 miles an hour and all of a sudden, there's a lot of side-to-side motion and you're being ripped off the rocket by the escape system. It happens so fast that there's no human reaction that would happen quick enough to save you,” Hague said in an interview alongside McClain. “Had it not worked, I wouldn't be sitting here.”

ELON’S BIGGEST FAN. SpaceX CEO Elon Musk has a friend in President Donald Trump. The commander-in-chief heaped praise on the entrepreneur and his reusable rockets during an interview that aired early Thursday on CNBC’s “Squawk Box.” Trump’s effusive praise of Musk, who also owns Tesla, is in stark contrast to some of the contentious conflicts SpaceX has had with Trump’s administration, including an ongoing legal battle over the Air Force’s plans to buy space launch launches.

“You have to give him credit,” Trump said. “I spoke to him very recently. … He likes rockets. He does good at rockets, too, by the way. I never saw where the engines come down, with no wings, no anything, and they’re landing. … He’s one of our great geniuses, and we have to protect our geniuses.”

Trump then added a somewhat cryptic remark about SpaceX’s future plans. “He’s going to be building a very big plant in the United States. He has to, because we help him, so he has to help us,” Trump said. A SpaceX spokesman did not respond to a request for comment about plans for a new facility, or what help the government provides the company.

HAPPENING NEXT WEEK: Commercial space conference begins in D.C. Administration, congressional and industry officials will delve into diverse topics from the use of nuclear power in space to the future role of spaceports to the effort to return humans to the moon at the two-day Commercial Space Transportation Conference in Washington. The agenda includes usual suspects like NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine, Kevin O’Connell, who leads the Commerce Department’s Office of Space Commerce, and Steve Dickson, the head of the Federal Aviation Administration.

We’ll also get to hear from some people who don’t speak publicly often. Beth Moses, the chief astronaut instructor at Virgin Galactic who flew to space on one of the company’s test flights last year, will speak Tuesday afternoon about “the astronaut experience.” A panel of professional staff members from the House and Senate committees that oversee NASA will speak on a panel about what space priorities we can expect Congress to tackle this year to close the conference on Wednesday.

C IS FOR COOKIE. In one of the more delicious experiments carried out on the International Space Station, astronauts made fresh-baked DoubleTree chocolate chip cookies in a prototype oven last month. The results, which were released this week, found the ideal recipe in orbit is to bake them for between 120 to 130 minutes at between 300 and 325 degrees, then let them cool outside the oven for between 10 and 25 minutes. Astronauts baked five cookies, three of which were returned to Earth on Jan. 7 for further testing. DoubleTree has also offered to donate one to the National Air and Space Museum.

QUESTION OF THE WEEK: Congratulations to Nathan Price, president of NSS North Houston Space Society, for being the first to correctly answer that the astronaut class was nicknamed “the turtles” after Vice President Mike Pence shared a saying with them: "If you see a turtle on a fence post, you know it did not get there by itself." The astronauts wanted to recognize how family and friends contributed to their success.

This week’s question: NASA announced the names of the first four space shuttle orbiters 41 years ago on Saturday. What were they named after? First person to email the answer to jklimas@politico.com gets bragging rights and a shout-out in next week’s newsletter!

What We're Reading

— The Mars Curiosity rover is frozen on the Red Planet after a software error.

— Spitzer Space Telescope prepares to end 16-year career.

— NASA begins testing its new moon rover.

— Boeing drops out of DARPA’s Experimental Spaceplane program.

— Virgin Galactic stock is up 170 percent in two months.

— Meet the legless, humanoid robot India is preparing to send to space.

— China’s capsule to bring crews to deep space is getting ready for its first test flight.

— China releases most detailed photos yet of the far side of the moon.

— The Air Force’s top lawyer argues that a Space Force is critical in the 21st century.

— And an op-ed on why the Space Force needs spaceships.

— Japan reveals its own plan for a space defense unit that will work with the Space Force.

— Vote for the Mars 2020 rover’s name. (And no, you can’t pick Rover McRoverface.)

Event Horizon

SATURDAY: Astronauts are expected to conduct a spacewalk outside the International Space Station to finish repairs on the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometers.

SUNDAY: Brian Weeden of the Secure World Foundation gives a talk on international cooperation around space sustainability.

TUESDAY: The Ilan Ramon International Space Conference begins in Israel.

WEDNESDAY: The two-day Commercial Space Transportation Conference begins in Washington.

FRIDAY: The European Astrofest conference begins in London.

A message from Northrop Grumman: At Northrop Grumman we’re always pushing the boundaries in space. Even now, our spacecraft and systems are spread across the solar system – going further, deeper and faster than anyone ever thought possible. Why? Because defining the limits of possible is what we do. In fact, it’s what we’ve always done. When we put the first man on the moon, we defined an era of space exploration. When we put the first comms satellite in orbit, we defined the communication age. And when the OmegA rocket becomes the newest heavy lift launch system, we will help the Air Force define the future of America’s access to space. Find out more about all the ways we’re defining possible in space. Click here.

Follow us on Twitter Bryan Bender @bryandbender



Dave Brown @dave_brown24



Jacqueline Feldscher @jacqklimas