My first reaction in meeting Diana Onyejiaka, 2020 candidate for U.S. Senate, was a bit incredulous.

I asked if this were her first run for office, why not choose school board of city council? The U.S. Senate — and the chance to succeed three-term, retiring Republican Sen. Lamar Alexander — seemed a bit out of reach.

Her answer floored me, and then her fresh and engaging ideas were impressive enough to do it again later in our interview.

“The state of Tennessee is ready for a change in leadership,” Onyejiaka said. “I bring a unique background to the table. I am a first-generation American (born in Baton Rouge, Louisiana and raised in Tennessee). I would bring a different face, news ideas and perspective to Tennessee politics.”

The consultant and college professor said her parents were from Nigeria. Onyejiaka’s father was a professor at Tennessee State University, and her mother was a businesswoman.

“I don’t think we have had anyone of my background to run for the U.S. Senate,” she pointed out.

That itself gives Onyejiaka a voice that should be heard in the run-up to the August primary.

Perhaps I should apologize to the 35-year-old Democrat from Nashville for doubting her next time I see her.

Tennessee just elected its first woman senator, Marsha Blackburn, a Republican who represented parts of Columbia and Maury County as a congressman before winning election to the upper house in 2018.

And in this Democratic primary, one of leading contenders will be Memphis activist Marquita Bradshaw, also an African-American. Democrat James Mackler is considered the front runner after being endorsed by the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.

But Onyejiaka is the first candidate only one generation removed from Africa.

“I think I would be the better candidate because of my background and perspective,” Onyejiaka said. “I am going to look at things from a policy standpoint, talking about things that will change the trajectory of our country and state. No one else is talking about the things that I am talking about.”

I told her I would like for The Daily Herald to host a debate between her and Republican contender Manny Sethi, a Nashville doctor and first-generation American whose parents emigrated from India. How did she wind up with a Democrat’s point of view, and how did Sethi become a conservative Republican? To me, it’s fascinating.

Instead of unreliable trading partners, such as China, Onyejiaka suggested building major relationships in Africa. The opportunity to sell more agricultural products and electronics to Nigeria, South Africa, Zambia and Angola would reduce the U.S. trade deficit and nudge the China away from its trade dominance. Trade between African countries and China was nearly $200 billion in 2017, 2018 and 2019.

“The state of Tennessee has an agricultural-based economy,” Onyejiaka said. “We do not have to be so dependent on China. I am bringing a different perspective on international trade. Africa has 54 countries.”

Africa’s population is 1.2 billion, but it is projected to be home to one-third of the world’s population by 2100. African countries together will have a population of 2.5 billion in 2050, the United Nations projects, more than China’s 1.4 billion people. The population of Africa is increasing because their births outnumber deaths four to one.

“The majority of the population is under 40,” Onyejiaka said. “They are so open to doing business with us, it’s not even funny. We just have to come to the table with better trade agreements.”

Former Japan ambassador Bill Hagerty, Tennessee’s former economic development commissioner, became the front runner in the Republican race when he was endorsed by President Donald Trump. He knows a thing or two about trade, Onyejiaka conceded, but is missing the big picture.

“I am not looking at party lines. I am looking at the individual,” Onyejiaka said. “What am I going to do for you? Ambassador Hagerty is not going to make lives better for farmers and the average Tennessean. I would tell him that he’s negotiating the old-school way.

“That’s not a knock on him,” she continued. “I respect what he has done in negotiating with Japan, but we have to think about the next decade. We cannot continue to have business as usual. He would be a great adviser. We need new faces and younger people in politics. We need to diversify — black, white, red, yellow, whatever.”

Onyejiaka said she is passionate about future generations and small business people. She said they need more job opportunities, especially in rural states.

“Getting small businesses engaged in international trade will benefit them as well,” she added.

On racial issues, Onyejiaka said she wants to move beyond division. She said Americans have a common bond much more powerful than race.

“People need to see we’re all human beings, and a race like this one at the highest level will highlight that,” Onyejiaka said. “It is not about color. It is about a common ground we share, which is better lives for ourselves and those coming after us. We want to have a good life.

“Not everyone can be filthy rich, but they want to know they will be OK,” she continued. “They don’t want to have to be worried about losing their house or farm or job. They want to wake up and have a certainty about their lives. They are ready to move beyond politics as usual.”

To eliminate debt and help students built wealth, Onyejiaka said she was open to the idea of forgiving all student debt to public college universities and colleges.

“Education is something I will harp on, if elected,” Onyejiaka said. “We don’t need an education system from the 1960s. We need more STEM courses [science, technology, engineering and math] in our middle-school, high-school and university classrooms, and on the other end of the spectrum, we need more vocational and tech classes. As a college professor, I know every student does not want to be there. They might want to go and do something else that’s technical.”

As a constitutional scholar, Onyejiaka said she was concerned about Congress being allowed to exercise its war powers unimpeded by the president. Trump has bypassed Congress, for example, in some unilateral decisions in the Middle East and Afghanistan.

“At the end of the day, I am sticking to the Constitution,” she said. “We should do what the Constitution says for us to do. We should honor and follow the Constitution.”

As to whether she’ll ever want to run for another elected office, if she does not win the election to replace Alexander, Onyejiaka merely said she would like to serve.

“I have known since I was 9 years old what I wanted to do,” said Onyejiaka, whose campaign web site is dianafortn.com. “I want to serve the people of Tennessee as a leader, one who has good ideas and listens to the people.”

◆◆◆

James Bennett is editor of The Daily Herald. His column mixes exclusive reporting, old-school storytelling and original commentary. He’s been a Tennessee Press Association first-place award winner for editorial writing, news reporting and public service since joining the newspaper in 2014. Contact him at jbennett@c-dh.net.