Earlier today (6th February 2020), the Vice President of Global Marketing of Realme, Xu Qi, revealed that the company will soon launch a 5G flagship smartphone that supports LPDDR5 memory. The news arrives after a Twitter post from the company that indicates a possible launch at MWC 2020.

The senior executive from Realme, a popular Chinese smartphone manufacturer, went on Weibo to share this information through his official account. The post on the Chinese microblogging website stated certain keywords. These were, “a 5G flagship smartphone and, or with, LPDDR5 memory arriving soon.”

Unfortunately, it is currently unclear where Realme is supplying the new LPDDR5 memory chips from for its upcoming 5G flagship smartphone. Recently, Micron Technology, a known memory chip manufacturer, announced that it is delivering the world’s first mass produced low powered DDR5 DRAM chips. So, it is likely that Realme is supplying its 5G smartphones with Micron’s new memory chipsets.

Previously, a Realme smartphone carrying the model name RMX2025 was certified by the Ministry of Industry and Information technology. It is speculated to be a flagship smartphone as it supports 5G networking in SA an NSA modes. Reportedly, this has been said to be the Realme X50 Pro 5G variant that is currently in development.

If there were a realme global launch event, where it would be? Shout out your answer here! pic.twitter.com/lo5Ngu5WX7 — realme Europe (@realmeeurope) February 5, 2020

Notably, Realme’s official Europe Twitter handle has also recently shared a post regarding a global launch event, so it is likely that the 5G LPDDR5 smartphone in question could be revealed at MWC 2020. This event will take place in Barcelona, Spain, from the 24th of February to 27th February 2020. Unfortunately, this is just an educated guess that is based on multiple official announcements within this week. So, we will have to wait for an official Realme statement or the reveal at MWC 2020, but stay tuned for any further developments.