On The Last Day Of 2019, 3 Suns Appeared In The Sky Over China. Here's The Science-Backed Reason Why

On The Last Day Of 2019, 3 Suns Appeared In The Sky Over China. Here's The Science-Backed Reason Why

People in the Chinese city of Fuyu welcomed the New Year with three times more light than usual. They were stunned this week when they were greeted not by a sunny morning owing to one sun, but three. Yep. Three suns appeared in the skies over the Chinese city of Fuyu on December 31, 2019.

The sun was flanked by two large glowing orbs on either side, making it star seem dwarfed in the skies above the country’s northeastern Jilin Province.

Gopherboy6956

The ‘artificial suns’ graced the sky for about 20 minutes before disappearing altogether. Now some of you might be wondering, how come two random stars came to shine in China alongside the sun and how did it not completely burn up the entire place?

That is because the two suns were not real; they appeared in the sky because of a scientific phenomenon.

Don't Miss 29.3 K SHARES 36.5 K SHARES 18.6 K SHARES 4.9 K SHARES 5.9 K SHARES

The ‘extra’ suns in the sky appeared because of an atmospheric optical phenomenon known as a sun dog, also called a parhelion.

Three "suns" appear on the sky over northeast China☀️☀️☀️

This spectacular view is caused by a natural phenomenon called "sun dog," also known as mock suns or parhelia, as a result of light refraction through ice crystals. https://t.co/N31a8Um6B2 pic.twitter.com/ZbBJLYu8gB — CGTN (@CGTNOfficial) January 2, 2020

The sun dog is a phenomenon that is caused by the ‘refraction of sunlight by ice crystals in the Earth’s atmosphere, which usually create glowing orbs in the sky roughly 22 degrees to left and right of the sun, at the same altitude above the horizon,’ reports rt.com.

For the phenomenon to occur, ‘the temperature needs to be quite cold, roughly 20 degrees below zero Celsius, when the Sun is still quite low in the sky, for the spectacular if mildly terrifying phenomenon to occur’.

So yeah, the two suns were as real as the social life you project on social media.