Somon Air has made this announcement:

In response to an international emergency declared by the World Health Organization (WHO) due to the global outbreak of coronavirus, and in accordance with the order of the Civil Aviation Agency under the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan, Somon Air has suspended all flights on its Dushanbe-Urumqi-Dushanbe route for the month of February 2020. This action is intended to protect the health of the people of the Republic of Tajikistan.

The airline had suspended flights between Dushanbe and Urumqi on January 24, 2020 due to the New Year Celebration in China, with plans to operate these flights after the celebration. However, after the WHO declaration, it was decided to continue suspension of these flights through February.

The airline apologizes to all passengers for the inconvenience caused by these actions and advises that affected passengers may either receive a full refund for the purchase price of their tickets or they may exchange their tickets for flights operating on a later date.

Previously on December 1, 2019, Somon Air launched its new service between Dushanbe and Delhi with Boeing 737 aircraft, carrying 107 passengers on the inaugural flight. The weekly service departs Dushanbe Sundays at 3:30 a.m. local time and arrives in Delhi at 6:30 a.m. local time. The return flight departs Delhi after a 90-minute turnaround at 8:00 a.m., arriving in Dushanbe at 10:00 a.m.

Somon Air is the national air carrier of Tajikistan, which has been successfully operating on the international market since 2008 and is the only airline in the country that joined the IATA (International Air Transport Association).

International air transportation and charter flights are the main activities of the airline. The basic airport is the Dushanbe International Airport; the international airports of Khujand and Kulyab are additionally operated.

In the fleet of the airline, there are Boeing 737-300, -800 and -900 aircrafts. All of them have been named in honor of national heroes and historical figures of Tajikistan.

Somon Air aircraft photo gallery: