"We will go nationwide if the opportunity is right," CEO Philip Chong said.

QUINCY — Every Friday morning, immigrants can be found in an office on Hancock Street studying for citizenship tests. In the same space, others are learning English in three-hour afternoon classes throughout the week, and others dedicate their Tuesday and Thursday evenings to programs that teach them how to apply to college or advance their careers.

Chinese painting classes are offered on Thursdays and Fridays on Coddington Street, seniors flock to free tai chi classes provided by certified instructors, and the children of immigrants regularly gather in North Quincy to mentor younger kids, put together community service projects and plan for the future.

The programs target different audiences, are often led by Mandarin-speaking professionals and have different goals, but they're all managed by the same well-known organization: Quincy Asian Resources Inc., which was established in November 2001 to bridge language and cultural barriers for members of the city's expanding Asian community.

It's been almost 20 years since Quincy Asian Resources started as a one-man operation in a small room above Don's Joke Shop on Hancock Street. Initially, the organization's only full-time employee was providing basic information about city services to non-English-speaking Asian immigrants — things as simple as where to pay a tax bill or how to get your trash picked up.

But in the two decades since the nonprofit was born, the agency has expanded to a multimillion-dollar operation that provides English classes, citizen programs, adult education, mentorship opportunities, elder services, social activities, cultural festivals and more to immigrants from all over the world. And they're showing no signs of slowing down.

"We will go nationwide if the opportunity is right," CEO Philip Chong said. "We know there are a lot of people in need, whether they're coming to us or not. We need to find those people — that's our job."

Want news like this sent straight to your inbox? Head over to PatriotLedger.com to sign up for alerts and make sure you never miss a thing. You pick the news you want, we deliver.

Since its start in 2001, the nonprofit has long operated out of 1509 Hancock St., and is colloquially referred to as "1509" by its clients. Several years ago, a North Quincy satellite location was opened and the group is now planning two expansions at once: a larger space in its North Quincy building and a takeover of Don's Joke Shop on Hancock Street, giving the organization street-accessible space for the first time.

"We want to push for a different kind of connection with people," Chong said. "We've had exponential growth in and outside of Quincy over the last two years. We're ready for this."

Chong said a demographic shift in Quincy started in 1980 as Asian immigrants, largely from China, left Boston in hopes of finding cheaper rent, good schools and the chance to own a home. The migration surged in the 1990s, and by the early 2000s Quincy was the city with the largest Asian population per capita in the state. Today, the Asian community makes up nearly a third, or about 27,000, of Quincy’s population of 94,000, according to census data.

"We want to push for a different kind of connection with people."Philip Chong, CEO of Quincy Asian Resources Inc.

But the city didn't adapt to the changing population overnight, and Chong said there was a decade or more of immigrants confused about how the city works, how to receive services and how to fit into a suburban culture. That's where the organization steps in to assist.

In addition to basic language and civics instruction, Quincy Asian Resources has taken on a role of cultural liaison. The organization helps immigrants figure out health care, helps parents navigate American public schools, prevents senior citizen isolation with field trips and activities, and provides a mentorship program for the middle school children of immigrants.

"People are friendly, they will make friends by going to these activities and build their own community," Rockey Chan, the orgnization's youth services director, said. "We're just using these programs to empower people to make connections with each other, build their own community and build a life here."

Two decades later, that Quincy organization is a well-oiled machine. Chong said he's looking to take the model nationwide. Already, the group is working with schools in Randolph to launch a mentorship program and has partnered with major corporations to bring services into the workplace.

Through its new workforce partnership program, the organization provides workshops, classes and other services to employees of businesses with a largely immigrant workforce. So far, Brooks Brothers locations in Haverhill and New York City are the nonprofit's biggest partners.

"It's a way to scale our connection with people. People had to know all about QARI, walk all the way here and they have to make such an effort, especially with a 9-to-5 workday," Chong said. "How do they get services? The idea is to put us into the workplace."

Chong said he and his staff — almost 50 people — are committed to using the Quincy-tested model to help immigrants across the country. The organization runs a $2 million operating budget every year, up from $50,000 when it first started, and recently scored its first seven-figure private donation.

"We want to be the leader in pushing change," Chong said. "We have very ambitious goals, but we are also very lucky. … The topic of immigrants is huge right now, and we see this as the right time for us to help more people."

Reach Mary Whitfill at mwhitfill@patriotledger.com.