By William Mauldin

The U.S. Senate is expected to pass an overhaul of North America's trade rules on Thursday and send a major Trump administration priority to the president's desk.

The U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement would replace the 26-year-old North American Free Trade Agreement. The pact updates trading rules in the continent to address 21st-century technology, safeguard environmental and labor standards in Mexico and toughen requirements for auto-industry trade among the three countries.

Notably, the vote will reassure farmers, manufacturers and other businesses that tariff-free trade will continue in North America. President Trump repeatedly threatened to pull the U.S. out of Nafta if Canada, Mexico and lawmakers on Capitol Hill didn't commit to an overhaul of the deal originally passed during the Clinton administration, and congressional passage helps the president fulfill a top campaign promise from 2016.

The expected passage would mark a rare moment of bipartisan cooperation on Capitol Hill against the backdrop of impeachment. It revealed overlap in the trade priorities of Mr. Trump and many Democrats, who often see the benefits of tariffs to enforce trade rules.

The three countries first signed USMCA in 2018, but House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, backed by labor unions, threatened to block passage without stronger enforcement provisions to ensure Mexican factories follow through with new labor requirements.

Sens. Sherrod Brown (D., Ohio) and Ron Wyden (D., Ore.) pushed a proposal to boost enforcement, helping House lawmakers develop a new version with the Trump administration that won rare backing from the AFL-CIO, which usually opposes agreements that open up trade.

"It now has the strongest trade enforcement system ever written into a trade agreement, and there are significant resources put into protecting American workers," Mr. Wyden said Wednesday on the Senate floor.

Democrats' close cooperation with Mr. Trump on North American trade stood in contrast to their criticism of his "phase one" China deal that Mr. Trump signed with Beijing officials at the White House on Wednesday. The China deal, which requires purchases of American exports and leaves tariffs in place, won't be submitted to Congress.

"Structural reforms in China's economy just did not make the final cut" in that deal, said Sen. Tom Carper (D., Del.), who criticized that pact but is supporting USMCA. He says it contains key improvements on environmental rules even if all green issues aren't addressed.

Still, some Democrats in the House and Senate said USMCA won't bring back the jobs lost under Nafta or won't do enough to address climate change.

"We can do much better than a Trump-led trade deal," Sen. Bernie Sanders, a Democratic presidential candidate, said at the presidential debate on Tuesday. "Given the fact that climate change is right now the greatest threat facing this planet, I will not vote for a trade agreement that does not incorporate very, very strong principles to significantly lower fossil fuel emissions in the world."

Other Democratic senators running for president and Democratic front-runner Joe Biden said they support the deal.

On the other side, some Republicans complained that priorities of American companies -- including big drugmakers' demands to defend biologic drugs from generic imitators -- were abandoned as House Democrats pushed for modifications that favored labor standards.

Sen. Pat Toomey (R., Pa.) says strict rules for the auto industry could weigh on economic growth and voted against the pact in the Finance Committee. Sen. Bill Cassidy (R., La.) voted against USMCA in committee, complaining that the deal scales back a dispute-resolution system that would allow American oil-and-gas firms to challenge any unfair treatment by the Mexican government through special arbitration panels.

Mexican legislators last month approved the new version of USMCA, and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau acknowledged last month that Canada would likely be the last country to ratify the revised North American trade deal. Canada's parliament, which had an election in October, isn't scheduled to return until Jan. 27.

Mr. Trudeau is running a minority government and needs the support of another party to pass legislation. The opposition Conservatives have said they would support ratification, and the trade deal is expected to pass after legislative committees review it.

"All eyes will be on Canada to get the job done quickly so we can all work together to implement this agreement," said Sen. Chuck Grassley (R., Iowa) on Wednesday.

Write to William Mauldin at william.mauldin@wsj.com