ISLAMABAD, February 3: Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing has assured to fully look after each and every Pakistani national in China faced with the challenge of coronavirus.

Addressing a joint news conference along with Special Assistant on National Health Services Dr. Zafar Mirza, he said we are treating Pakistani friends as our own people.

The ambassador said that Pakistani government, foreign office and its embassy in Beijing are in constant touch with us to address the difficulties faced by Pakistani community.

The Chinese Ambassador was appreciative of the support and solidarity expressed by Pakistani leadership and people with China in this hour of trial.

Yao Jing said the Chinese government has taken a series of measures including restriction on the movement of the people to contain the virus. He said the Chinese government has the determination to overcome this plague.

Yao Jing thanked Pakistan for extending their unwavering support to the country during this difficult time.

He explained that so far people leaving China are being screened over a 14-day period. However, nobody from Hubei province or the city of Wuhan, ground zero for the outbreak, had been allowed to travel domestically or internationally.

“Right now we are not encouraging Chinese citizens to travel abroad,” he said. He added that the Chinese citizens travelling to Pakistan are being traced and monitored by the respective embassies and companies. In his remarks, Dr. Zafar Mirza said the flight operation between Pakistan and China resumed on Monday. He said we have made elaborate arrangements at the airports to ensure proper screening of the passengers coming from China.

The Special Assistant said necessary barriers have been created to keep Pakistan safe from this virus.

The Special Assistant said Pakistan has got the ability to diagnose the

coronavirus with the arrival of coronavirus kits from some countries. He said we had kept seven Pakistani and Chinese nationals under observation and we have checked their samples by using these kits which have proved that they are not affected by the virus.

About the four Pakistanis affected by the virus in China, the Special

Assistant said that they are gradually recovering.Sabah