© TRIBUNE PHOTO/RION SANDERS Grain is harvested at a farm near Choteau.

A trade deal President Donald Trump signed with China Wednesday is, potentially, a huge deal for Montana wheat farmers and beef producers.

Montana is the nation's third largest producer of wheat. China is the world's largest consumer of wheat.

"This market could potentially overtake Japan," said Vince Mattson, president of the Montana Grain Growers Association who farms near Chester.

Between 2011 and 2015, Montana wheat farmers exported 1.2 million metric tons of wheat to Japan, making it the leading export market for the state, according to the Grain Growers.

By comparison, China received 184,000 metric tons of Montana wheat during that time frame, making it the state's eighth best wheat export market.

The first phase of the U.S.-China Trade Agreement includes commitments by China to increase purchases of U.S. agriculture, manufactured goods, energy, and services by $200 billion over two years, including $40 billion in agriculture commodities.

© RION SANDERS/GREAT FALLS TRIBUNE Wheat farmer Mitch Konen prepares for a harvest near Fairfield, Mont.

Whether China actually purchases that much remains to be seen.

If expectations of the trade agreement are fulfilled and rules are followed, China could go from a non-player in wheat exports to possibly the No. 1 export market, the Grain Grower's Mattson said.

"We believe a lot of the wheat that will be purchased will come directly from Montana," Mattson said of the impact of the trade agreement on U.S. wheat exports.

Much of the wheat China has purchased historically from the United States, although it hasn't been much, has come from Montana due to its high quality, Mattson said.

Between June and December of 2016, hard red spring and winter wheat grown in Montana represented 83% of U.S. exports to China, according to the Montana Wheat and Barley Committee.

U.S. Sen. Steve Daines, R-Montana, said China also is the second largest beef export market for the United States.

Montana exported 1.1 million cattle in 2019, according to the Board of Livestock.

"Having access to that market for cow-calf producers ... just a really good thing for Montana," Daines said in a video prior to the signing ceremony.

Related: Montana farmers watching weather, trade disputes as harvest begins

In Cascade County, the trade deal could boost pulse crop production and hopes for a pulse crop processing center, said Cascade County Commissioner Joe Briggs, who attended the signing ceremony in Washington, D.C.

More: Commissioner Briggs invited to White House for trade deal signing

Dried beans, chickpeas, lentils and peas are the most commonly known pulse crops.

Daines traveled to Beijing in September where he said he met with senior Chinese government officials to reinforce Trump’s efforts to come to a trade deal.

U.S. Senator Jon Tester, D-Mont., said the phase one trade agreement with China is a welcome first step in halting an escalating trade war "but we shouldn't pat ourselves on the back."

There's a lot more work to do to end what Tester described as a "self-inflicted" trade war between the two countries.

"Montana producers are hurting, and I'm going to keep fighting to make sure today's deal is enforceable and that China delivers on what they promised, because family farms and Main street businesses are on the line," Tester said in a statement.

U.S. trade: 'We ought to be mad:' U.S. Trade Secretary hears Montana farmers' concerns

The Montana Wheat and Barley Committee called the market potential for Montana wheat in China as "incredible."

It notes the country's population is expected to reached 1.4 billion in 2030 and incomes are on the rise in rural and urban areas. And Montana's high protein wheat is a good fit for Chinese millers looking for consistent, high quality grain, it says.

"Right now they are not buying virtually any wheat since the tariff call started," Mattson said.

About 80% of Montana's wheat production is exported out of the country, according to the Montana Wheat and Barley Committee.

"It could give a lift to a wheat market that's been depressed for the better part of five years," Mattson said of the trade agreement.

Karl Puckett covers the city of Great Falls and Cascade County for the Tribune. He can be reached at kpuckett@greatfallstribune or 406-791-1471, or on Twitter at @GFTrib_KPuckett.

This coverage is only possible with support from our readers. Sign up today for a digital subscription.

This article originally appeared on Great Falls Tribune: Trade deal with China big deal for Montana wheat, beef producers