Good day and welcome to the Sprout. It’s National Gluten-Free Day. Since it’s also Monday, here are the worst foods to order if you’re gluten-free, from the List.

Here’s today’s agriculture news.

The Lead

Will the extradition case of Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou factor into Canada’s decision into whether or not the company should be part of this country’s 5G network?

CBC News looked for an answer to that question by chatting with a collection of legal experts.

The Chinese government’s response to Meng’s arrest has been to arrest and hold two Canadians on spying charges, and to target imports of Canadian canola and meat. Here’s more about some of the factors going into the Huawei decision, and what the ramifications could be for Canada and China.

Around Town

MPs are scheduled to return to the House of Commons on Jan. 27.

The government of Ontario published a press release on Monday stating that it is accepting applications for funding under the Canadian Agricultural Partnership from businesses that will strengthen the province’s honey bee population and its beekeeping sector. Funding is awarded in partnership with the federal government.

In Canada

Farmers across P.E.I. are tallying the losses they suffered from the tail end of hurricane Dorian to report in order to request disaster relief from the federal government. CBC News spoke to several farmers about the damage to their crop that they’ve observed.

Internationally

The U.S. and China’s Phase 1 deal will be released this week as the document is signed in Washington, U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said. He’s said repeatedly that the deal calls for China to buy $40-$50 billion (U.S.) worth of U.S. agricultural products annually and a total of $200 billion of U.S. goods over two years, according to Reuters.

However, the details on the agreement are unclear at this time as the Chinese have yet to confirm Mnuchin’s plan, instead saying their import policy will be based on demand and protection of local producers. As well, demand for soybeans in China — which are a big hope for increased purchases under the new plan — has already been met through recent purchases of Brazilian soybeans, reported AG Week.

As the two year trade war between the two countries comes to a close, The Wall Street Journal is reporting that much of the U.S. economy is largely unscathed with economic growth trending near two per cent in 2019 — well short of the Trump administration’s goal of three per cent. The trade dispute impacted farmers badly, with auto parts, furniture and machinery importers also choking down punishing tariffs, and investment between the world’s two largest economies dropping overall.

Noteworthy

Kicker

The first-ever cheese-themed hotel is opening its doors in London and one lucky winner will get the ultimate treatment with a one-night stay in the cheesy quarters, officially deemed “Cheese Suite.”

Sadly, the contest is only open to U.K. residents and Channel Islands residents which excludes us. But those of you who are eligible can find the details here.

Until tomorrow.

Follow @Emmanuel_Rach

Follow @CharliePinkerto