CLOSE

Coming Right Up

Dozens of egg rolls are made for the Hwangs' annual fundraiser for MS. (Photo: Courtesy of Sarah Hwang)

A chance to eat well and do good: Wok Hard to Fight MS will be Feb. 29 at Congregation Sinai in Fox Point.

The event has a new name this year but the same mission: to raise money to find a cure for multiple sclerosis, through a pop-up Chinese feast. Previously, it was known as Fight MS: Eggroll Style.

Sarah Hwang was diagnosed in 1999 with MS, a disease of the central nervous system. She and her family have been raising awareness and funds for research since then, and she serves on the board of the local chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society.

The foodie fundraiser started in 2014, when her husband, Milton Hwang, decided to make egg rolls and other items for donations to benefit MS research.

The event grew so large that the Hwangs in 2018 moved it from their home in Bayside to Congregation Sinai.

People can drop in any time between 5:30 and 9:30 p.m. Feb. 29 at “Hwang’s House of Yum” at Community Hall at the synagogue, 8223 N. Port Washington Road.

There, they can have a full Chinese meal designed by Milton Hwang and prepared by him and kitchen volunteers.

It will include passed appetizers such as egg rolls, potstickers and scallion pancakes, and various stir-fried dishes.

Vegetarian, vegan and gluten-friendly options will be available, though dishes may have come in contact with meat, dairy or wheat and likely contain soy sauce.

A home-brewed Chinese lager-style beer call Wok Hard Buddha Beer will be available at the bar along with wine, soft drinks and bottled beer.

Admission to the event is a donation, and all donations go to the National MS Society to fund research and support programs for the nearly 1 million people in the United States with MS.

Diners can register for Wok Hard at eventbrite.com to help organizers plan food quantities.

They also can donate through the EventBrite page, which is recommended, but donations can be made at the door with cash, credit cards or checks to Walk MS.

RELATED: Milwaukee’s Top 30 restaurants for 2019: Delicious food, spectacular service set these stars apart

Contact dining critic Carol Deptolla with tips or questions at carol.deptolla@jrn.com or (414) 224-2841, or through the Journal Sentinel Food & Home page on Facebook. Follow her on Twitter at @mkediner or Instagram at @mke_diner.

Our subscribers make this reporting possible. Please consider supporting local journalism by subscribing to the Journal Sentinel at jsonline.com/deal. DOWNLOAD THE APP: Get the latest news, sports and more

Read or Share this story: https://www.jsonline.com/story/entertainment/dining/carol-deptolla/2020/02/24/wok-hard-congregation-sinai-meal-helps-fight-multiple-sclerosis/4820258002/