We had a very difficult time narrowing down the candidates for this year’s scholarship, they were all very driven and have wonderful ambitions for their chosen field. Ultimately, we couldn’t choose just one so we chose two winners this year.

Two Winners Chosen for The James Davidson Innovative Student Scholarship

SprayWorks is proud to announce they have selected two winners for the second annual James Davidson Innovative Student Scholarship. This year’s pool of candidates was extremely driven and passionate about their chosen field of study. The scholarship was intended for just one winner, however it was impossible to select just one recipient this year.

The scholarship is named after SprayWorks Equipment Group owner, James Davidson. The James Davidson Innovative Student Scholarship was designed to encourage Chemical Science students to create innovation in their chosen industry and during their university education.

The scholarship recipients are Ellen Goff, a Chemical Engineering student at Trine University in Indiana, and Drew Horton, a Chemical Engineering student at the University of Akron in Ohio. Ms. Goff has ambitions of improving the way metals are used, as well as how plastics decompose while impacting our environment. “My goal is to innovate a better, more cost-effective steel that could be used for building in low-income areas,” said Ellen Goff. Drew Horton, a member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers student chapter as well as the Society of Plastics Engineers, is interested in research within anti-corrosive materials. “As I am studying Chemical Engineering, I will have a significant knowledge regarding practical chemical science which will allow me to apply chemical science to future problems,” said Drew Horton.

“We had a very difficult time narrowing down the candidates for this year’s scholarship,” says James Davidson, Owner, SprayWorks Equipment Group. “They were all very driven and have wonderful ambitions for their chosen field. Ultimately, we couldn’t choose just one so we chose two winners this year.”

About SprayWorks Equipment Group

SprayWorks Equipment Group is a spray foam and polyurea company; supplying equipment, training, material, mobile rigs, and parts – and the #1 distributor for PMC equipment. With nearly 100 years of combined experience, SprayWorks has knowledge in commercial and residential buildings, bridges, and infrastructure. SprayWorks provides training and education for new contractors and equipment operators; open cell, closed cell, polyurea & coating applications for interior & exterior building envelope design, waterproofing, below grade, bridge deck, barge, secondary containment all types of roofs and structures. For more information, visit Store.SprayWorksEquipment.com or YouTube. Call 330-587-4141.