Opinion

Opinion: U.S. must stay focused on energy independence and security

China’s President Xi Jinping shakes hands with U.S. President Donald Trump before a bilateral meeting on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in Osaka on June 29, 2019. China’s insatiable energy demands seem like a perfect match for U.S. energy production, but shifting geopolitics can make make matters complicated. less China’s President Xi Jinping shakes hands with U.S. President Donald Trump before a bilateral meeting on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in Osaka on June 29, 2019. China’s insatiable energy demands seem ... more Photo: BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI /AFP Via Getty Images Photo: BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI /AFP Via Getty Images Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close Opinion: U.S. must stay focused on energy independence and security 1 / 1 Back to Gallery

The United States is emerging as a net energy exporter, and China has a nearly insatiable demand for energy that its domestic sources cannot meet. So it should surprise no one that energy is a key component of a trade deal the U.S. and China recently reached.

China’s demand and America’s supply might seem like a commercial match made in heaven. Of course, shifting geopolitical and strategic positions are never so simple. If anything, events leading up to the deal reinforced the high stakes for the U.S. as a top energy producer.

As the trade war with the U.S. heated up last year, President Xi Jinping called for boosts in domestic production of oil and gas. Just a week before the two countries reached an agreement, a newly completed pipeline started delivering natural gas from Russia to China. While there is skepticism about the abundance and availability of China’s domestic oil and gas reserves, Russia is the world’s No. 2 producer.

As it happened, the initial public offering for Saudi Aramco, the Saudi’s state-owned oil company, was also announced in December after having been delayed by a shockingly effective terror attack last fall.

Each of these developments underscores how essential it is for the U.S. to stay agile in its strategic arrangements globally and stay focused on its energy security and independence domestically.

Increasing global demand and fossil fuel industry innovations have enabled natural gas to replace coal as the country’s leading resource for electricity generation. In addition, the U.S. has become not merely a production leader but the world’s top energy exporter in 2020, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

The domestic resurgence can be credited to investment in areas that previous administrations shunned, such as Texas’ Permian Basin. As Forbes reported in April, the Permian Basin overtook the Aramco Ghawar site to claim the title of top oil producer and rapidly growing source of natural gas production. Since 2011, U.S. natural gas production has increased fourfold, from 100 to 400 million cubic feet per day.

As a net energy exporter, the U.S. is working to secure the cyber component of the energy sector. As energy distribution systems embrace smart grid technologies, vulnerabilities to cyberwarfare tactics may increase.

The U.S. can ready itself for any potential outages and maintain critical reserves by further diversifying its domestic energy and infrastructure portfolio. Specifically, an “all of the above” strategy that integrates energy sources from wind and solar to hydro and fossil fuels to maximize the grid is the key to resiliency and reliability.

Many of the 2020 Democratic presidential candidates neglect the importance of this concept. Some of the candidates have gone as far as to call for a ban on the development of all fossil fuels, rolling back use of fracking and closing down highly useful (and safe) production.

We must soundly reject such regressive policies. As the recent trade and energy developments make clear, the U.S. is more prosperous and secure, and the world is safer, with the U.S. as a leading energy player. Our leaders should embrace policies that preserve American energy security and geopolitical leadership.

Steve Bucci, who served for three decades as an Army special forces officer and top Pentagon official, is a visiting research fellow at the Heritage Foundation.