The UNP has not yet taken a decision on giving nominations to former State Minister Ranjan Ramanayake as legal proceedings are ongoing, MP Lakshman Kiriella said yesterday. Ramanayake is now under investigation for the contents of several telephone calls, recordings of which have become available online.

Addressing a news briefing at Sirikotha, Kiriella said politicians should not chase after positions. On the other hand, positions will come to those who genuinely work for the people, he said.

“To serve the people a strong opposition must be built. Ranil Wickremesinghe, Sajith Premadasa and Karu Jayasuriya; the trio must work in unison to function as a strong opposition. People do not need the position of a politician; the public only accepts the service rendered by the politician. Each and every politician must be aware of his or her own limits.As the opposition we have a major responsibility to steer the country on a better path. We must work together as a party for it,” Kiriella added.

He also highlighted the fact that even though there is a discussion carried out by the government to abolish the 19th Amendment to the constitution, it was passed in parliament with the support of all the parties and the UNP only had 45 seats at that time. “The country wanted to abolish the executive presidency at that time.The19th Amendment to the constitution reduced the powers of the executive presidency up to 90%. It also reinstated the independence to the Commissions of the Elections Commission, Public Service Commission and Police Commission.The SLPP also voted in favour of the 19th Amendment to the constitution and passed it in parliament. Therefore there is no reason for them to abolish it now”.

Kiriella also urged the government to construct the Central expressway fast since 90% of the expressway was completed by the UNP led government. “Through the Central expressway people will benefit and it will save time for many of us. Instead of seeking Chinese investment for construction, handing over the contract to a local group could speed up the operation,”he said.