NCTW photo

Potsdam architect Brooks Washburn leans over the plan for Cottage Street parking, with Randy R. Vanbrocklin, maintenance director, plant operations at Canton-Potsdam Hospital, foreground, and St. Lawrence Health System Chief Operating Officer Eric Burch, as trustees Abby Lee, Alex Jacobs Wilke, Maggie McKenna and Steve Warr look on.

POTSDAM -- St. Lawrence Health System is seeking approval from the village to close Cottage Street to regular traffic to provide more parking at the Canton-Potsdam Hospital campus and improve the safety for students walking to Potsdam Central schools.

St. Lawrence Health System Chief Operating Officer Eric Burch, Potsdam architect Brooks Washburn, and Randy R. Vanbrocklin, Maintenance Director, Plant Operations at Canton-Potsdam Hospital, presented the plan to the board at its meeting Monday night.

"That was the first step in the process of accomplishing the plan," said architect Washburn.

He said there was no firm timeline for the plan, which "has been floated for many years." The timing of the presentation "became appropriate since the hospital now controls all of Cottage Street," having purchased all of the private property over the years as the hospital has expanded its services.

The village would have to establish an infrastructure easement for Cottage Street, which is being devised by a lawyer, to allow the village with access to water and sewer lines when needed.

The plan is to make room for 45 new parking spaces for staff, patients and visitors to the growing campus.

One end of the street would be gated to stem regular road traffic while allowing access for emergency vehicles and for a PET scan tractor-trailer.

The plan also includes moving the sidewalk from the north side of the street to the south side, away from traffic on the hospital side of the street. With its proximity to the hospital and directly across Leroy Street from the high school, it is thought moving the sidewalk will improve safety for the students and other walkers.

There is no firm timeline yet for the conversion project, Washburn said.