At the recent National Prayer Breakfast, President Donald Trump used the occasion to celebrate his acquittal by the Senate and to upbraid political opponents who have said they pray for him.

According to news reports, when keynote speaker Arthur Brooks, a conservative professor from Harvard University, reminded the audience that Jesus instructed his followers to love their enemies, the president, who captured 81 percent of the white evangelical vote in 2016 demurred, saying, “Arthur, I don't know if I agree with you. But I don't know if Arthur's going to like what I'm going to say.”

Later, he added: “I’m sorry. I apologize. I’m trying to learn. It’s not easy. When they impeach you for nothing and then you’re supposed to like them, it’s not easy folks. I do my best.”

Some local clergy recently were asked: What spiritual advice would you offer the president?

“I would suggest the president memorize or place a placard on his desk with 2 Chronicles 7:14, ’If my people will humble themselves and pray, and search for me, and turn from their wicked ways, I will hear them from heaven and forgive their sins and heal their land,’” said the Rev. Joel Cochran, lead pastor of The Chapel in Marlboro, in Marlboro Township.

“I would ask President Trump to keep in mind that his personal walk with God is paramount in leading the nation.”

The Very Rev. Dan Rogich, retired priest at Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Church in Canton, said his spiritual advice would boil down to a few words.

“Your faith must be made visible by being inclusive towards all people, no matter what nationality, creed, political party, or sexual orientation,” he said.

“You should also exhibit behavior your own mother would be proud of, meaning you never use speech to denigrate any person, even if they disagree with your views; and third, your faith should propel you, Mr. President, to be a unifier, not a divider; a leader all will follow because you carry within you a spirit of brother and sisterhood for all.“

The Rev. Wilbur Allen III, pastor of All Saints Church of God in Christ in Canton offered straightforward advice:

“Search the scriptures,” he said. “There you will find the central theme of Jesus' message in St. Matthew 22: 36-40: ‘Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, ’Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.’ This is the first and great commandment. The second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.’‘"

Language and leadership

“The President of the United States should always know that to whom much is given, much is required - and expected,” said the Rev. Eric Howard of Mount Olive Baptist Church in Canton.

“This notion expressed in Luke 12:48 could not be more true for any other position than that of the president. That said, I would ask the president to consider two things as this nation’s leader: his language and the idea of service.

“I would encourage him to take seriously not just the power of words, but the power of his words to unify and engage. Many have been outright offended and disoriented by the bevy of disparaging comments he has made to various groups of Americans that cause other Americans to think it’s OK to talk and feel that way.”

Language, Howard added, is a critical aspect of leadership. He cites the New Testament’s Book of James, which states the faith of a person who fails to control their tongue is worthless.

“And Proverbs 16:32 conveys that the one who can control his temper is greater than one who takes the whole city,” Howard said. “The president cannot allow his temper to control his tongue, nor his privilege his policies.”

Allen said a president has the platform to unify the country beyond political concerns.

“The very words of the president can divide or bring the citizenry together,” he said. “Historically, from the Roman Empire to the Nazi Germany, divisive rhetoric was the seminal impetus, which led to sadistic measures.”

“Discern deliberately the way of right relationships by breathing and waiting for the Holy Spirit’s leading,” advised the Rev. Cara Stultz Costello, co-lead pastor at Faith United Methodist Church in North Canton.

Rabbi Michael Oyler, founder of Star in the East, a messianic church in Plain Township, vote or Trump in 2016 and plans t do so again.

“I’m often challenged as a man of God how I could support someone whom many consider compromised morally. My response is we have all sinned and fallen short and anyway, we didn’t elect a pastor, we elected an executive; one with much resistance has honored his campaign promises and done an amazing job making America great again.”

Oyler said he would advise the president to study Proverbs, which urges discipline in one’s speech.

“Mr. President, the tongue has power over life and death,“ he said. ”We can tear down and destroy or create and build up with our tongue.“

Humility required

“I would first advise him (again) to read the Beatitudes, specifically Matthew 5:44 where Jesus calls us to ’Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you,’” said Bishop Abraham Allende, head of the Northeastern Ohio Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America. “This is what he heard at the National Prayer Breakfast from Professor Arthur Brooks, who gave the keynote address just before the president spoke.”

Allende notes that the Apostle Paul offered similar advice to the church in Rome: “Do not claim to be wiser than you are. Do not repay anyone evil for evil ... but overcome evil with good. (Romans 12:16-20).”

“I realize how challenging this is, but leadership does require true humility,” he said. “One cannot browbeat people into submitting to their demands. Love and kindness are so much more persuasive. From all I've read about this country's greatest presidents, especially Washington and Lincoln, they incorporated these spiritual principles into their leadership skills, which is why we honor them on Presidents Day.”

“The president should also understand the relationship between being a servant and greatness,” Howard said. ”It is clear that he is concerned with greatness, but what is less clear is his concern for servanthood. But if he fails to see himself as a public servant, people will continue to think greatness is generated from positions of hierarchy, when ultimately it is born out of positions of humility.“

Allen again cited Matthew’s gospel, which records Jesus as saying, “Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and every city or house divided against itself shall not stand.”