The video will start in 8 Cancel

Apprentice winner Sian Gabbidon’s celebrity-backed swimwear brand company has is in red after making a loss of £47,000.

The 25-year-old’s bikinis have been worn by former Corrie babe Michelle Keegan and ex-Love Islander Hayley Hughes.

TOWIE’s Georgia Kousoulou and Megan McKenna have also donned her two-pieces.

Sian - who scooped £250,000 from Lord Sugar in the 2018 show - sells the swimwear on her own website and via ASOS.

(Image: PA)

Documents for her company Sian Marie Fashion Limited show sales were worth £92,151.

But the papers - for the 16 months up until June last year - reveal after the cost of sales and investing £86,307 in advertising and PR - she was in the red.

The loss for the period was £47,785.

However, her business statement said of the losses: “The company has continued to invest in its’ infrastructure sales avenues.

(Image: BBC/Boundless Taylor Herring) (Image: Instagram)

The board are confident that together with exploring ways of expanding the business will ensure that we will be reporting increased profit levels in the last financial year.”

Sian, 25, from Leeds, West Yorks, named Coco Chanel as one of her heroes, citing the iconic French designers rags-to-riches achievements as an inspiration.

She has launched several ranges and said: "I can’t believe how poor the market is in providing stylish modest wear."

(Image: Instagram)

The swimwear pieces, which can be bought at sianmarie.com usually range from £45 to around £65 and come in a large range of colours and prints.

Her SS19 Tropical Goddess Collection which was modeled by Hayley Hughes.

Michelle Keegan recently wore Sian's 'The Athena' bikini while on holiday in Barbados.

(Image: Instagram)

(Image: SilkFred WS)

Sian says her designs are aimed at women aged 25 to 34 who want to make a statement by the pool or at festivals.

But she faces competition from model Abbey Clancy who recently launched her own collection through retailer Lipsy with prices starting from £38.

Meanwhile swimwear from the Elizabeth Hurley Beach collection, is more expensive with prices starting from £138 and up.

(Image: Instagram)

Since her big win, Sian has flooded her Instagram account with her swimwear snaps from her shoots in scorching hot locations, primarily Miami.

It's evident that the social media guru has been swept up in raising the profile of her bespoke business as she mixes business with pleasure on her trips abroad.

It's no wonder the entrepreneur was confident she was the best advert as she regularly poses up a storm in her own swimwear after pumping Lord Sugar's £250K investment into her business.