CLOSE TCPalm's Rob Landers brings you some of today's top stories on the News in 90 Seconds. Treasure Coast Newspapers

VERO BEACH — The city wants to make a last-ditch effort to save Szechuan Palace.

Maybe the state Department of Transportation, which owns the property at 1965 43rd Ave., could sell it to the city at a reduced price in some kind of government-to-government transfer, Councilman Joe Graves suggested at Tuesday's City Council meeting.

"They're just wanting to get rid of the property," Graves said. "We should at least approach them."

There's not much time. FDOT could sell it Friday to the highest bidder.

More: State plans to sell Szechuan Palace in Vero Beach next month

More: Historic Szechuan Palace property up for sale by state; historians concerned about future

Buy Photo The Vero Beach City Council hopes to try to preserve the artwork in Szechuan Palace. The state Department of Transportation, which owns the 43rd Avenue property, could sell it Friday to the highest bidder. (Photo: COLLEEN WIXON/TCPALM)

Szechuan Palace closed in June, weeks after celebrating its 30th anniversary. FDOT bought the property as part of a 43rd Avenue widening project, but needs only the right of way, not the entire property, state records said.

As of last week, the state had no bidders for the property, considered historic by local historians.

The wall murals and artwork inside make the building valuable, Councilman Rey Neville said.

Without a historical designation, which only the owner can request, the building is unprotected from demolition. Neville suggested changing city code to allow the city to initiate preservation efforts for a building owned by another government.

"If it's owned by the government, it's owned by all of us," Neville said. "I hope we can do something before it's destroyed."

More: Local, national historic designations could help protect former Szechuan Palace building

The council plans to discuss the issue at a special meeting Friday. As of Wednesday, the state had not responded to the Vero Beach inquiry about taking over ownership of the building, City Manager Monte Falls said.

Someone could get a deal on the building, Graves said.

"If someone's going to pick it up cheap, it should be the city," he said.

Want more Treasure Coast news? If you're already a subscriber to TCPalm, thank you! If not, please subscribe and help keep the news you want coming.

Read or Share this story: https://www.tcpalm.com/story/news/local/shaping-our-future/growth/2020/02/05/vero-beach-making-last-ditch-try-save-szechuan-palace-demolition/4665127002/