ADVERTISEMENT

The closure of Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu for a comprehensive repair of the runway and upgrade of facilities is no doubt a great inconvenience for the people of South-East and South-South. But it is a job that must be done for safe flight operations.

The immediate past Director-General of Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt. Muhtar Usman, in September 2018 hinted that the Enugu Airport would be given the “Abuja treatment.”

The aviation sector could not forget in a hurry the closure of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja in 2016 for a comprehensive repair of the runway following which the traffic was diverted to Kaduna International Airport.

The decision generated a lot of heat in the polity as Abuja airport is the second busiest after Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA); but in spite of the hues and cries, the issue of the Abuja airport is now history.

ADVERTISEMENT HOW OVER 5000 NIGERIA MEN HAVE PERMANENTLY OVERCOME TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS RECENT DISCOVERY BY MEDICAL CONSULTANTS

History was however repeating itself with the closure of Enugu Airport in August 2019. Right from the early 2018, the issue of Enugu has been in the pipeline following the dilapidated state of the runway. Many airliners were said to have complained about the state of the runway which impedes smooth takeoff and landing at the airport.

Also, the governors of the South East states under the aegis of the South East Governors’ Forum raised concerns about how the closure of the airport could ground the economy of the region and other parts of the South-South which also make use of the airport.

But given the safety concerns raised by the stakeholders, especially the airliners, the federal government was convinced that closing the airport was the way to go.

Following the closure of the airport, President Muhammadu Buhari approved the release of N10bn for the project which is now being handled by Messrs PW. The project involves the scraping of damaged portions of the runway, installation of other landing aids and facilities, among others with the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, declaring that passengers should expect a brand new airport in Enugu by April.

Our correspondent who was in Enugu recently reports that passengers now make use of other airports in the zone and continue their journey by road. The alternative airports are Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport, Owerri in Imo State: Asaba Airport in Delta and Warri airstrip also in Delta; and Port Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa Rivers State.

For the people of the South-East, the closure of the airport was felt more especially during the last yuletide festivities as many Enugu bound passengers had to land at alternate airports to access their villages in Enugu.

For instance, those who came in through Owerri airport either from Abuja or Lagos had to board a vehicle to Enugu spending three hours on the expressway.

“After spending just 35 minutes to arrive Owerri from Lagos, I spend another three hours to get to Enugu,” said a passenger who identified himself simply as Kingsley on a Dana flight last week.

To ease the movement of passengers from Owerri to Enugu during the last Christmas and New Year festivals, the Enugu State Government stationed buses to convey them free of charge.

The gesture was done by the state government to reduce the impact of the closure of the airport on Enugu indigenes, especially those who came home for the festivities.

However, the minister said the federal government was not un-mindful of the inconvenience caused by the closure of the airport as he has given his word that the airport would be ready before Easter in April.

The hitherto busy airport in Enugu is now a shadow of its former self following the stoppage of flight operations. As a corollary effect of this, other activities at the airport have been grounded. The car hire operators were nowhere to be found. The food vendors had temporarily vanished.

But the government says there is light at the end of the tunnel after the temporary closure. It was observed that construction work on the runway has reached an advanced stage.

The minister, who last week inspected the airport with the permanent secretary in the ministry, the Managing Director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Capt. Rabiu Yadudu and officials of the Enugu State government said the federal government attaches great importance on the speedy reopening of the airport.

“I am very satisfied with the level of work. According to the programme of work approved and established by us, we are beating the deadline. As to question of whether Easter is feasible, indeed it is. By our programme of work, we would be leaving this runway, God willing, before Easter. And that’s sacrosanct by the grace of God.

“We take this job very seriously. We know the importance of Enugu, not only being an international airport, we know that it is a centre for the south eastern part of the country, all of the commercial activities, the trading activities and festivities are domiciled and centred around this city, a very important city for that matter.

“We take it very seriously. Personally from the level of the ministry and under the leadership of Mr. President, Muhammadu Buhari, every single assignment is in the interest of this country. Therefore, the future and the fortunes of this country cannot be mortgaged no matter which way and if assignment is given to us, we would deliver and deliver it very well so that you will continue to reap dividends of democracy.”

Daily Trust reports that the runway project would come with other facilities like the instrument landing system, airfield lighting, taxi lighting, among others.

“Every single equipment or system of operation that this airport would need, you would have it as we deliver this airport to you…I guarantee and assure you that by the time we are done with Enugu, you would be very, very proud of this airport and very, very proud of services we have provided,” the minister reiterated.

Besides the runway project and installation of the other supporting facilities, the airport landscape would also change with the ongoing construction of a new terminal. The terminal which is about 70 per cent completed is being constructed by China Civil Engineering and Construction Corporation (CCECC). Meantime, while the terminals in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Kano airport were being constructed with loans from the China Exim Bank, the Enugu terminal was solely funded by the Federal Ministry of Aviation.

In explaining the terminal, Sirika said, “The terminal building is a special consideration given to Enugu. The loans we got from the Chinese were meant for Lagos, Abuja, Kano and Port Harcourt and because of the importance of Enugu, government decided to fund it through the budget, not through loan and we are progressing very, very well.”

As the minister promised to deliver the project before Easter, many Nigerians especially the users of the airport are holding him to his words as he did with Abuja Airport which he delivered before the six weeks promised for the completion of the project.

Related

Download Daily Trust News App