Frelinghuysen heads to K Street

With David Beavers and Daniel Lippman

FRELINGHUYSEN HEADS TO K STREET: Former Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-N.J.), who didn’t run for reelection in 2018, has landed on K Street. He’ll be a senior director at Greenberg Traurig and plans to split his time between the firm’s Washington and Florham Park, N.J., offices. In a statement, Frelinghuysen said he looked forward to “working with a broad range of clients on Capitol Hill” and advocating “for the great defense, pharmaceutical, life sciences, financial services, and others in New Jersey and around the country.” Frelinghuysen is allowed to lobby his former colleagues under House ethics rules since he’s been out of office for more than a year.

Advertisement

— Robert Mangas, a co-chairman of Greenberg Traurig’s federal government law and policy practice, said in a statement to PI that Frelinghuysen “will provide strategic policy advice to clients and, if required, will of course comply with all aspects of the Lobbying Disclosure Act.”

— The rush of lawmakers who left office last year to K Street has been so forceful that it’s hard to keep track of all of them. Former Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.), Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Luke Messer (R-Ind.), Bill Shuster (R-Pa.), Jeff Denham (R-Calif.), Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Gregg Harper (R-Miss.) and John Culberson (R-Texas) are now registered lobbyists. Former Rep. Ryan Costello (R-Pa.) started his own firm and has said he intends to register to lobby. And former Rep. Sean Duffy (R-Wis.), who resigned from Congress in the fall, has also registered as a lobbyist.

— Former Sens. Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.) and former Reps. Peter Roskam (R-Ill.), Michael Capuano (D-Mass.), Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.), Kevin Yoder (R-Kan.), Dave Reichert (R-Wash.), Barbara Comstock (R-Va.) have headed to Washington lobbying firms but haven’t registered to lobby. Other former lawmakers, including former Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.) and former Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-Minn.), have signed on as chairmen or co-chairmen of advocacy campaigns but aren’t registered lobbyists. And former Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), who resigned from Congress on Dec. 31, 2018, has returned to his former law and lobbying firm, Covington & Burling, but hasn’t re-registered as a lobbyist yet.

Good afternoon, and welcome to PI. Lloyd Blankfein, the former Goldman Sachs chief executive, told the Financial Times he “might find it harder to vote for Bernie than for Trump.” I wonder how many PI readers who have no love for the president feel the same way. Let me know, anonymously: tmeyer@politico.com. You can also follow me on Twitter: @theodoricmeyer.

FARA FRIDAY: Here are a few notable recent Foreign Agents Registration Act filings. Royce, a past House Foreign Affairs Committee chairman who’s now a lobbyist at Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, has registered as a foreign agent to represent a shipping company that works with the Liberian government. Royce will advocate for the Liberian International Ship & Corporate Registry “with United States stakeholders and agencies, particularly relating to maritime industry related matters impacting the Liberian Registry,” which lets ships fly under the Liberian flag, according to a Justice Department filing. The contract is worth $10,000 a month.

— Royce is the third lawmaker who left office last year to register as a foreign agent, along with former Reps. Ros-Lehtinen and Harper. His registration also means the last three chairs of the House Foreign Affairs Committee have become registered foreign agents following their departures from Congress. Ros-Lehtinen, who chaired the committee before Royce took over in 2013 and is now a senior adviser at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, registered last month as a foreign agent representing the United Arab Emirates’ government. Former Rep. Howard Berman (D-Calif.), who led the committee before Ros-Lehtinen and is now at Covington & Burling, briefly lobbied President Barack Obama’s White House on behalf of New Zealand’s government after leaving office.

— A Georgian political party, meanwhile, has hired Hogan Lovells and the DCI Group for help in Washington. Former Sen. Norm Coleman (R-Minn.) and three other Hogan Lovells lobbyists will work Congress and the administration on behalf of the Georgian Dream party, which is led by the country’s richest man, Bidzina Ivanishvili. They “will be collaborating with and may be receiving guidance from elected Georgian officials, including Members of Parliament, but will be acting at the direction and control of the political party itself, Georgian Dream,” according to a copy of the contract filed with the Justice Department. The contract lasts a year and is worth $75,000 a month.

— DCI Group will handle communications for the party. “Through the preparation and dissemination of information to the media, DCI Group will promote Georgian Dream's unwavering commitment to democracy and the special Georgia-U.S. relationship,” according to a Justice Department filing. As Bloomberg Opinion’s Eli Lake noted last week, Georgian Dream hired the firms after Sen. Roger Wicker (R-Miss.) and Reps. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.) and Gerry Connolly (D-Va.) sent letters to Georgian Prime Minister Giorgi Gakharia in December expressing concern about recent developments in the country.

— “The news that hundreds of protestors, journalists, and political opposition leaders have been injured — and even hospitalized — by reportedly government-sanctioned violence is appalling,” Kinzinger and Connolly wrote in their letter. In his own letter, Wicker criticized recent remarks by Ivanishvili “that seem to threaten political opposition with ‘time in jail.’” “Georgian Dream’s unilateral appointment of 14 judges to life terms on the Supreme Court last week, despite serious questions about some of their legal qualifications, further undercuts public trust in the rule of law,” he added.

NEW BUSINESS: T-Mobile has added Owen Evans Ingols to its deep bench of Washington lobbying firms. Bruce Evans, Daryl Owen and Adam Ingols will lobby on "wireless siting and spectrum-related issues with an emphasis on appropriations," according to a disclosure filing. And Lowe's has hired Crowell & Moring to lobby on President Donald Trump's tariffs on China. Robert Niblock, Lowe's chief executive at the time, voiced concerns about tariffs' effect on the company's business nearly three years ago, shortly after Trump took office.

HOW MUCH THE RNC’S CHIEF OF STAFF REALLY MAKES: Richard Walters, the Republican National Committee’s chief of staff, earned a salary last year of $207,558. But ProPublica’s Mike Spies, Jake Pearson and Derek Willis report “the party paid him an additional $135,000 through a shell company he established in December 2018 called Red Wave Strategies. Federal Election Commission reports described the RNC’s payments to Red Wave as ‘political strategy services,’ as if the money had flowed to an independent contractor and not Walters himself. Red Wave does not have other employees and has no clients other than the RNC.”

— Michael Steele, a former RNC chairman, said the additional payments to Walters were “in keeping with a culture of ‘sweetheart deals’ among party insiders that he described as corrosive.” RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel defended Walters’ compensation in a statement to ProPublica, saying that his “record as chief of staff speaks for itself.” Glenn McCall, the RNC’s budget committee chairman, said in a statement that Walters’ “compensation package was approved by myself, the chairwoman, treasurer, and budget committee” because of his “outstanding work.”

DEMOCRATIC DONORS AREN’T READY TO FUND A ‘STOP BERNIE’ EFFORT: Many Democratic megadonors think Bernie Sanders “would make a poor general election candidate — but there is no big, burgeoning ‘stop Sanders’ movement building in the wings, more than a dozen major Democratic donors and operatives said in interviews with POLITICO,” our Maggie Severns reports. “Most donors don't want to risk damaging a candidate suddenly looking more and more likely to be the Democratic nominee against President Donald Trump.”

— “What's more, big Democratic donors realize that launching a well-funded super PAC attacking Sanders could just motivate his devoted base even further, boosting Sanders and alienating those voters from the rest of the Democratic Party. … ‘I pick up no signs yet of a “Stop Bernie” movement, at least among the donors I talk with,’ said Gara LaMarche, president of the Democracy Alliance, a collaborative of progressive donors whose members have included high-powered megadonors like George Soros and Donald Sussman. ‘I think people are hyper-aware of how counterproductive that could be with the many voters who are passionate about Sanders.’”

HOW ORACLE PROTESTED ELLISON’S FUNDRAISER FOR TRUMP: “People left their desks Thursday at Oracle offices around the world to protest Chairman Larry Ellison’s fundraiser a day earlier for President Donald Trump, according to people familiar with the matter,” Bloomberg News’ Nico Grant reports. “The protest, called No Ethics/No Work, involved about 300 employees walking out of their offices or stopping work at remote locations at noon local time and devoting the rest of the day to volunteering or civic engagement, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified for fear of retribution.”

IF YOU MISSED IT ON THURSDAY: In a videoconference between Facebook’s Washington office and its headquarters after the 2016 election, Joel Kaplan voiced concerns about removing dozens of pages that circulated false news reports, The Washington Post’s Craig Timberg reports. “‘We can’t remove all of it because it will disproportionately affect conservatives,’ said Kaplan, a former George W. Bush White House official and now the head of Facebook’s Washington office, according to people familiar with the meeting who spoke on the condition of anonymity to protect professional relationships.”

— “When another Facebook staff member pushed for the entire list to be taken down on the grounds that the accounts fueled the ‘fake news’ that had roiled the election, Kaplan warned of the backlash from conservatives. ‘They don’t believe it to be fake news,’ he said, arguing for time to develop guidelines that could be defended to the company’s critics, including on the right.”

Jobs Report

— Linda Dempsey, a lobbyist who’s the National Association of Manufacturers’ vice president of international economic affairs, is leaving the trade group for an unspecified job in the private sector.

— Beacon Global Strategies has hired Diane Rinaldo as a senior vice president. She was previously acting administrator of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration and the Commerce Department’s acting assistant secretary for communications and information.

New Joint Fundraisers

Gimenez Victory Committee (Carlos Gimenez, Residents First PAC, Republican Party of Miami Dade County, NRCC)

Virginia House Victory PAC (Reps. Jennifer Wexton, Abigail Spanberger and Elaine Luria)

New PACs

Help Dump Trump (Super PAC)

Liberty Initiative SuperPAC (Super PAC)

Make California Red Again (Super PAC)

New Lobbying Registrations

Alpha Strategies, LLC: NST Global, LLC

Clause Law P.L.L.C.: Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians

Crowell & Moring LLP: Lowe's Companies Inc.

Husch Blackwell Strategies: GreyRobinson on behalf of City of St. Cloud, FL

Loyola Strategies, LLC: Nevada Hydro Company, Inc.

Nossaman LLP: Petland, Inc.

Nossaman LLP: Tradepoint Atlantic

Owen Evans Ingols: T-Mobile

Victory Coalition Strategies LLC: Crowell & Moring LLP (on behalf of The Port Fund L.P.)

New Lobbying Terminations

American Health Quality Association: American Health Quality Association

Armory Hill Advocates (formerly known as Rawlson Policy Group): Achieve Home Health Care

Arnold & Porter Kaye Scholer LLP: Trinidad Benham Corporation

Ballard Partners: Mechanical Contractors Association of America

Ballard Partners: Prudential Financial, Inc.

Banner Public Affairs, LLC: Manchester Financial Group

Birch, Horton, Bittner & Cherot: Fort Sumter Tours

Isabelle Beegle-Levin: Kimble's Aviation Logistical Services Inc.

Lincoln Concepts: Republic Holdings Corporation

Lucas | Compton, LLC formerly Madison Policy Group, LLC: Water-Gen, Inc.

Mercury Public Affairs, LLC: Taylor, Odachowski, Schmidt & Crossland, LLC (obo MTG International, LLC)

Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, LLP: Ernest Health Inc.

Mr. Mark Kopec: Sentar Mr. Mark Kopec: Tangent LLC Company

Nexxus Consulting, LLC: City of Surprise

Policy Impact Communications, Inc.: Paul Mitchell Schools Franchisee Association

Potomac International Partners, Inc.: Pure Storage

Follow us on Twitter Theodoric Meyer @theodoricmeyer