Tsai Ing-wen was re-elected president this January, campaigning against Taiwan’s economic dependence on the PRC. The US-China trade war may lead Taiwan to diversify imports and exports, reducing that dependence.

Maurice Tsai · Bloomberg · Getty

How can US firms manufacturing their products in China protect themselves against the US-China trade war? Last June Terry Gou, chairman of Foxconn, Apple’s leading component supplier, recommended investing in Taiwan. Like many multinationals operating in Taiwan, Foxconn was tempted to move some of its factories out of mainland China. Gou, then Taiwan’s richest man, planned to stand in this January’s presidential election before suddenly withdrawing his candidacy last September. He talked of repatriating factories and attracting foreign investors to show that Taiwan, a key link in the global supply chain, could take advantage of the standoff between US president Donald Trump and China’s Xi Jinping that began in January 2018.

An UNCTAD report in November 2019) put Gou’s strategy in a wider context: the trade war would harm both the US and Chinese economies but would benefit third countries, with Taiwan the biggest winner. The report, much covered in the media, said US tariff increases had caused PRC sales to the US to fall by $35bn to $95bn in the first half of 2019, while Taiwan’s rose 20% to $4.2bn.

China doesn't want to rely on Taiwanese technology forever. It's a matter of national security Roy C Lee

The media also announced the long-expected return of the taishang, Taiwanese entrepreneurs who, like Gou, invest overseas, especially in mainland China. In the 2000s they moved almost all Taiwan’s industrial production, except for semiconductors, to the mainland. Roy C Lee, deputy executive director of the Chung-Hua Institution for Economic Research in Taipei, which conducts research for the Taiwanese government, said, ‘In the simplest model, a company receives orders from the US, designs products in Taiwan, and manufactures them in China. More than 90% of our exports are intermediate inputs, and over 40% go to the mainland.’

The Taiwanese government’s economic forecasts are optimistic, and the central bank (...)