EANS-News: AT & S Austria Technologie & Systemtechnik Aktiengesellschaft / AT&S plant Chongqing II back in operation – all AT&S locations in China open

Corporate news transmitted by euro adhoc with the aim of a Europe-wide distribution. The issuer is responsible for the content of this announcement.

No Keyword

Leoben - Today, Plant II at the Chinese AT&S location in Chongqing will resume operations. AT&S is one of the first companies in the Yufu industrial park in Chongqing to receive this approval for restarting. Due to the coronavirus, the Chinese New Year holidays were extended. The opening of the plant was preceded by very intensive negotiations with the Chinese authorities, which, in accordance with a local regulation, tie the restart of production to strict requirements.

"We are very happy and also relieved that we can start production again and were able to meet all the requirements and guidelines of the authorities," says AT&S CEO Andreas Gerstenmayer. "I would like to thank our colleagues in China personally and on behalf of the board team for their great efforts. In the past few days and hours, the team on site has accomplished something extraordinary."

In order to receive the positive notification from the Chinese authorities, a comprehensive documentation of the precautionary measures as well as the travel movements and adherence to the quarantine regulations of all employees was necessary. In this regard, the company benefited from the fact that a WeChat channel (a Chinese instant messaging service comparable to WhatsApp) has long been used for communication and information exchange with employees. This enabled all employees to provide and document the relevant information promptly.

With the approval, all three Chinese AT&S plants are now in operation again, at least with limited capacities. Chongqing Plant I continued operation during the New Year holidays with a short, maintenance-related interruption and therefore did not fall under the above-mentioned regulation to restart production. The largest Chinese AT&S plant in Shanghai went into operation as planned on February 10, after the extended New Year holidays. However, the situation in China remains volatile and is being closely monitored and supervised by the top management.

end of announcement euro adhoc

issuer: AT & S Austria Technologie & Systemtechnik Aktiengesellschaft Fabriksgasse 13

A-8700 Leoben

phone: 03842 200-0

FAX:

mail: ir @ ats.net

WWW: www.ats.net

ISIN: AT0000969985

indexes: WBI, VÖNIX, ATX GP, ATX

stockmarkets: Wien

language: English

Digital press kit: http://www.ots.at/pressemappe/18136/aom

Rückfragen & Kontakt:

Gerald Reischl, Director Communications & Public Relations

Tel: +43 3842 200- 4252; Mobile: +43 676 664 8859 2452; g.reischl @ ats.net

Gerda Königstorfer, Director Investor Relations

Tel: +43 3842 200-5925; Mobile: +43 676 8955 5925; g.koenigstorfer @ ats.net

AT & S Austria Technologie & Systemtechnik Aktiengesellschaft

Fabriksgasse 13

8700 Leoben / Österreich

www.ats.net