Sign up to FREE email alerts from TeessideLive - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A Turkish industrial giant has said it is ready to buy British Steel if a rescue deal with China’s Jingye falls through.

Jingye agreed buy the company - which employs around 700 on Teesside - for £50m November although a deal is yet to be completed.

The Chinese group last week agreed terms with unions over worker conditions after the buyout, that could see up to 500 jobs lost.

However Turkish conglomerate Cengiz said on Sunday it is ready to bid for the British Steel, which also owns Scunthorpe steelworks.

Cengiz Holding chief executive Omer Mafa said: "British Steel is an important asset and we are watching developments closely and are ready to make a bid for the whole of British Steel.

"With a strong balance sheet and annual revenues of $7bn we are well placed to acquire overseas assets.

"The UK is one of our target countries that we want to invest in and are looking at a range of opportunities such as major infrastructure projects and industrial assets."

Cengiz has interests in a range of industries including mining and construction.

The Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy has not commented specifically about talks with Cengiz.

But a spokesman was quoted by the BBC saying the Government was not in “exclusivity talks” with Jingye and would monitor any interest from other parties.

The Official Receiver has continued to run British Steel since the company went into liquidation last May.

British Steel operates Teesside Beam Mill at Lackenby and Special Profiles at Skinningrove.

A report on Saturday claimed that Jingye is considering a plan to bring steelmaking back to Teesside if its takeover is successful.

The firm is reportedly planning to develop an electric arc furnace (EAF) that would supply steel to its Teesside plants.

EAFs used a method of production that recycles scrap steel rather than use raw material.

Jinge says it will invest £1.2bn in British Steel if its deal goes ahead.

The Chinese firm stepped in after a previous deal with the Turkish army pension fund to buy British Steel out of insolvency was never finalised.