Govt taking concrete steps to overcome energy crisis: Analysts

Dr. Mirza Ikhtiyar Baig (Economist):Provision of low-cost electricity is highly imperative for improvement of industry. It is appreciable that the Prime Minister Imran Khan is highly concerned with the issues of industrial and domestic consumers of electricity. It is priority of the incumbent government to keep the electricity rates affordable. It is high time for Pakistan to increase exports and decrease imports. China is no more taking export orders and it is a great opportunity for Pakistan to enhance its trade activities. There is a need to improve administrative mechanism to boost economy.

Tahir Basahart Cheema (Energy Expert): Prime Minister Imran Khan has rightly taken the notice of the high prices of electricity for industrial and domestic users. The prices of electricity should be affordable for common people. The devaluation of rupee in international market adversely affects the prices of energy in the country. The companies responsible for generation, transmission and distribution of power do not have efficient functioning. The circulating debt is a big challenge for industrial revival in Pakistan. An outreach program is imperative for the betterment of energy sector. We cannot afford rise in the prices of electricity.

Dr. Gulfraz Ahmed (Economist):It is high time to utilize local and renewable resources and lessen our dependency on imported oil for power generation. Pakistan has great potential to generate power through renewable resources. The developed countries are now shifting on indigenous resources to lessen the cost of power production. The low-cost power can be obtained from roof top solar panels. We have to shift from imported oil to alternative and affordable methods of electricity generation

Dr. Aaliya Hashmi (Economist):Despite all the challenges, Pakistan and China are committed to complete CPEC related activities in time. Pakistan and China have immense potential to cooperate with each other under the umbrella of CPEC. Infrastructure and energy related projects have been accomplished in the first phase of CPEC. The second phase is related with Industrial up gradation. Establishment of special economic zones would rejuvenate industrial sector in Pakistan. It would gear up the business activities in the country. The mega project CPEC would attract foreign investors.

Dr. Noor Fatima(Economist): The Chinese have proved themselves as a very hardworking and committed nation. Despite the corona virus epidemic, the Chinese workers would return after New Year vacations in their due time. The Chinese investors are interested to invest in alternative energy production. Solar and coal are rich indigenous resources to produce energy. Pakistan would be able to export the energy after completion of the CPEC energy related projects.