Text size

Following several strong quarterly reports from Chipotle Mexican Grill, one of the stock’s skeptics now sees upside.

UBS analyst Dennis Geiger upgraded Chipotle stock (ticker: CMG) to Neutral from Sell, and raised his price target to $900 from $690. Monday morning. Geiger’s previous Sell rating on the restaurant chain had stood since February 2018.

Chipotle stock has gained 60% in the past 12 months, far outpacing the S&P 500 index. Chipotle stock was down 1.3% to $858.67 Monday morning, while the S&P 500 index was down 1.6% related to far-reaching concerns surrounding China’s coronavirus outbreak.

Geiger wrote in a Monday research report that results in recent quarters had significantly exceeded his expectations, as he underestimated customer demand and benefits from Chipotle’s digital app and delivery services.

“And our more recent concerns around valuation were misguided given the strength & sustainability of results and scarcity of idiosyncratic sector growth opportunities,” Geiger wrote.

He noted traction for CEO Brian Niccol’s strategic plans, and thinks future opportunities, could support above-average growth for the company.

Editor's Choice

“Initiatives are resonating and appear on trend with customer wants,” he wrote, citing a UBS survey that includes a multiyear improvement in customer brand perceptions.

He thinks the company’s strategy of introducing one to two new items a year provides a multiyear traffic boost.

“Looking forward, carne asada, nachos and new beverages could become permanent menu items or pulsed as [limited time offers], providing traffic and ticket benefits,” he wrote.

Hs price target implies about 3.5% upside from where the stock closed on Friday, and Geiger doesn’t think that warrants a Buy rating. Notable upside, he wrote, would require sizable sales and earnings-per-share beats in upcoming quarters. He does note upside could come from 2020 comparable sales if there’s growth greater than 8%, or restaurant margins reaching the mid-20s or higher.

Write to Connor Smith at connor.smith@barrons.com