Since the 1990 years the ocean currents worldwide a little faster every decade, Shijian Hu from the Chinese Academy of Sciences and colleagues report in the journal “Science Advances”. Climate change seems to be behind this. And not just on the surface, but at least to a depth of 2000, the researchers explain.

“We have already 2013 stated in the report of the IPCC that the Ocean currents in the subtropical areas in the Pacific have increased , ”explains Monika Rhein, who heads the oceanography group at” Marum “, the Center for Marine Environmental Sciences at the University of Bremen. So far it was not clear whether other ocean currents flow faster. The researchers in China, Australia and the USA are now providing an answer to this question: Apparently 76 Percentage of water masses accelerated to depths of 2000 meters.

However, such analyzes have a big problem: Only since the turn of the millennium have data on the physical state of the seas become , from which the currents can be calculated, measured regularly to a depth of 2000. And only since the year 2006 cover more than 3000 Argo measuring stations floating in the deep sea almost completely off the world's oceans.

Strong fluctuations are normal

Hu and his colleagues therefore used an additional five combinations of direct measurements and models, some of the ocean currents back to the year 1959 reconstruct. “Since there is very little data, especially from deeper water layers before the Argo measurements, these re-analyzes are less exact “, Rhein points out. In addition there are the results of twelve different computer models.

If Hu and his colleagues combine their data sets with each other, they still show a clear result : While the ocean currents fluctuated between increases and decreases from a global point of view until 1990 has been shown since the 1990 years a significant increase. The climate models had previously indicated that with increasing temperatures in climate change, currents should flow more slowly in the long term. And according to Hu and his colleagues, especially in the tropics . It is precisely there that the currents should accelerate strongly according to the results of the Chinese researchers .

Climate change drives winds

However, such trends should be treated with caution : “The ocean currents show in many regions over a period of years and fluctuations for decades, ”explains Rhein. In order to reliably determine a long-term acceleration, one would have to observe more than two decades .

So far, the Chinese researchers have shown only one trend . After all, they are the driving force behind the acceleration of ocean currents: Since 1990 the Wind worldwide directly above the waves in every decade increased by around 1.9 percent . Wind is considered to be a key driver of ocean currents in the upper layers of the water. The stronger winds, on the other hand, can only be attributed to a very small part to natural variations, while the vast majority are responsible for climate change , Hu and his colleagues state.

The ocean current at Cap Aghulhas on the southern tip of Africa brings warm, salty water from the Indian Ocean to the … Photo: German Climate Computing Center DKRZ

But this is of considerable importance for climate change itself : There are more than 90 percent of the greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide trapped additional heat not in the air, but in the oceans . If the currents intensify there, this could change the absorption of heat and thus the global climate. And since the ocean currents also carry heat to different regions, changes could affect the climate of these areas.

Unknown depth

Another major unknown are the currents in the lowest floors of the world's oceans, which can influence the water movements further up and thus also the climate. “At depth there are far too few measurements for good analyzes ,” explains Rhein. So it should be a while before we know whether the acceleration of the ocean currents is permanent and how they affect the climate.

This also applies to the Gulf Stream , which according to recent measurements shows a great natural variability. Here, however, the melting of the Greenlandic glaciers is more likely to result in a slowdown , climate researchers expect