Lanka pledges solidarity with China

President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has sent a letter to Chinese President Xi Jinping affirming solidarity with China and offering strong support to the Chinese people in the face of the outbreak of the new coronavirus infection.

The Chinese Embassy in Colombo in a statement said on Feb 3, President Rajapaksa has sent a signed letter to Chinese President Xi Jinping expressing sincere condolences and firm support on behalf of the Sri Lankan government and people in controlling the outbreak of pneumonia caused by the new type of coronavirus in China.

In the letter President Rajapaksa said he is saddened to learn that more than 300 Chinese citizens were killed by the infection with the new coronavirus.

"The Sri Lankan government, people, and I would like to express our deepest sympathy to the deceased, their relatives, and other patients. The people of Sri Lanka will sincerely pray for the Chinese people and will never give up," the President’s letter read.

Recalling that the Chinese government assisted Sri Lankan citizens living in Wuhan and other places to return to Sri Lanka at a critical juncture, showing China’s sincere friendship with Sri Lanka, the President, expressed his gratitude and assured that the government and people of Sri Lanka will ensure the safety and happiness of Chinese citizens living in Sri Lanka.

"The friendship between Sri Lanka and China goes back to ancient times. Since the Non-Aligned Movement, our two countries have firmly supported each other, understood and cooperated with each other. Facing the current difficulties, the people of Sri Lanka sincerely wish the indomitable and tenacious Chinese people to overcome the disease at an early date," it further said.

President Rajapaksa noted that China has given strong support in the fight against terrorism in Sri Lanka and has given tremendous help in Sri Lanka’s development and construction. "We are grateful for this. As a true friend in distress, Sri Lanka will stand firmly with China," he said.

"I firmly believe that under your leadership, China will be able to quickly overcome the challenges brought by the epidemic. The people of Sri Lanka will work together with Your Excellency and the Chinese people," the President said.

Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Hua Chunying at Monday’s press briefing said since the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak, some countries have expressed understanding and support to China through various means.

As of noon February 2, epidemic prevention and control supplies donated by the Korea, Japan, the UK, France, Turkey, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Hungary, Iran, Belarus, Indonesia and the UNICEF have arrived in China, the spokesperson said thanking them all.