Paresh Barua has expressed his desire to hold talks, the government must not let “go” of this opportunity. File picture

Ulfa (Independent), led by Paresh Barua, may form a citizens’ group for the second time to initiate peace talks with the Centre, if “sovereignty” is included in the agenda.

The group is likely to be similar to the People’s Consultative Group (PCG), constituted by Ulfa to initiate talks with the government in 2005.

Though the outfit nominated 11 members, including Jnanpith awardee Mamoni Raisom Goswami, the PCG pulled out of the talks accusing the Centre of not being sincere, in 2006. The group had held three rounds of talks with the Centre. Sovereignty remains the outfit’s key demand.

Lachit Bordoloi, leader of Manab Adhikar Sangram Samiti, who was a part of the PCG told The Telegraph, “I have also heard about the developments but it’s still unofficial. However, everything depends on the Centre’s sincerity and political will.”

He said since Barua has expressed his desire to hold talks, the government must not let “go” of this opportunity.

“It’s the best time to initiate the move from the government, especially, after signing the Bodo Accord by bringing all factions of the NDFB on the table. It’s the right time that the government should act maturely to solve Ulfa (I)’s issues,” he said.

Pro-talks Ulfa leader Anup Chetia, who is Barua’s cousin, said: “It might not be called PCG. If formed, this bunch of civil society representatives will hold preliminary round of talks on behalf of Barua and put his demands forward. Only after talks between this group and Centre reaches a ‘satisfactory’ level, then only Barua may join the talks. All this speculation of forming the group may only become a reality once the government agrees to hold talks with Barua without any condition.”

The pro-talks faction has been in dialogue with the Centre since 2011. However, after the Centre signed the Bodo peace Accord bringing all four factions of NDFB to the mainstream, a similar inclusive solution to Ulfa issue was also believed to be helpful to instil peace in the state. After the surrender of NDFB factions, Ulfa (I) leaders remain the most-wanted militants.

On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked all militant outfits in the Northeast to follow the NDFB members to bring an end to their armed movements.

Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma have invited Barua to join the peace talks.

The state’s apex literary body, Asam Sahitya Sabha, too, appealed to Ulfa (I) to come forward and initiate peace talks for an honourable settlement.

Sarma had said on Friday night that stakeholders should approach the talks issue with an open mind and without any condition to take the fledgling process forward.

Barua is said to be operating from China and has a strength of about 300 armed cadres. Reports suggest that the ongoing protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act had led to new recruitment.