Is there a national trade policy for Sri Lanka?

by Sonali Wijeratne

B.A. (SL) M. Sc LLB (London) former Director General of Commerce

Your newspaper has recently highlighted a conflict of opinion and apparent confusion in your columns between the Professional National Front of Sri Lanka, which vehemently claim that Sri Lanka has no Trade Policy and a former Director General of Commerce, G. Senadhira, who staunchly asserts that Sri Lanka does indeed have a Trade Policy.

I would like to make the following objective presentation of facts and observations which seek to answer the question whether there is a holistic National Trade Policy for Sri Lanka and for the best interest of our Country.

I trust that my contribution (as newly retired DG/Commerce of a few months ago,(Sept.2019) possessing 34 years in Trade Promotion/Diplomatic Service (Commercial) having engaged in leadership roles in a gamut of international trade activities, including WTO trade policy reviews, Bilateral, Regional and multilateral trade negotiations,) would afford some clarity, truth and also understanding as to why the present confusion has arisen and consequential remedial action that may be taken.

Standard definition of what constitutes a trade policy of a country takes into account a wide canvass of Government’s Trade Policies and Practices by component measures on controlling exchange of goods and services. These range from Tariffs, Other Charges affecting imports/exports, customs procedures, valuation, Rules of origin, Sanitary and phytosanitary requirements, Technical Barriers to Trade, Electronic Commerce to Competition policy and price controls etc. Trade Policy by sector is a sin qua non or absolute necessity which means that for a meaningful National Trade Policy a country has to have a coherent and well integrated Agricultural and Fisheries Policy, An Investment and Industrial Policy and other Trade Policy by Service Sectors as Ports, Aviation, Telecommunications, Finance, professional services, and other measures affecting Trade & Production.

Therefore, any Free Trade Agreement with country X or Y would be determined on the basis of liberalizing such component measures in laws and regulations relating to exchange of goods, services, investment, intellectual property, E, Commerce, government procurement depending on how comprehensive these agreements are. Hence it is apt to commence this analysis by examining the basis on which the plethora of Free Trade Agreements were initiated by the previous Government in respect of the recently concluded Sri Lanka-Singapore Free Trade Agreement, the proposed Sri Lanka-Thailand FTA, Sri Lanka China FTA, and Economic Cooperation and Technology Agreement with India, and proposed Sri Lanka/Bangladesh FTA.

It is an irrefutable fact that there was no informed, credible nor coherent trade policy that predicated the decision for even country selection of Free Trade Agreements, a few examples of which are indicated below: viz. In the case of the recently concluded Sri Lanka/Singapore FTA the basis was the high level political decision to commence negotiations. No feasibility study was done by the Government of Sri Lanka although the Singaporeans had done what was euphemistically referred to as the Joint Study on their side. No wonder then that fruits of such arbitrary decision making without a National Trade Policy resulted in jubilant hurrahs on the Singapore Ministry of Trade Website. This concluded that" the FTA signed with Sri Lanka held key benefits for Singapore e. g. tariff elimination by Sri Lanka for Singapore’s exports on 80% of all Sri Lanka’s tariff lines in up to 15 years from when the date SLSFTA enters into force. Singapore’s exports will enjoy potential tariff savings of about $10 million each year. The SLSFTA also contains one of the most liberal rules of origin (ROO) which will allow more exports from Singapore to qualify for the lower tariffs negotiated." (Source- Press Release by Ministry of Trade and Industry Singapore on 23rd Jan 2018)

The irony that Singapore is already a duty free market prior to entering into an FTA and that tariff reductions on 80% Goods Sector granted to Singapore would not entail any reciprocal concessions for Sri Lanka had obviously escaped the attention of our trade policy makers! On the contrary the Sri Lankan Policy Prescription that attended the SLSFTA as well as other proposed FTAs were entirely based on Political Policy Prescription of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Management Chaired by the former PM Mr. Ranil Wickremesinghe and his advisors. It was their directive that "Free Trade Agreements with India, China and Singapore will give a strong signal to the world regarding the economic Situation in Sri Lanka" (Cabinet Committee on Economic Management 2017). Thus was the official Mandate given to the Ministry of International Trade & Development Strategy to negotiate Free Trade Agreements with India, China, Thailand and Singapore in parallel! Such are the flimsy, naïve and shallow assumptions based political policy prescriptions that cannot be taken by any rational human being as one constituting a Trade Policy!

In the case of the proposed FTA with Thailand, the study to ascertain benefits for Sri Lanka by entering into such Agreement laughably enough commenced after the negotiations began! The high level political decision making to enter into negotiations had already been made by key Cabinet Ministers including the former Prime Minister and the Committee on Economic Management. It is a puzzle to figure out what professional officials could negotiate sans a National Trade Policy including the market access requirements/capacities of stakeholders vis-à-vis the competiveness, strengths and weaknesses of the goods and services supply base of Sri Lanka to Thailand and vice versa! However, if I may offer a brief digression, the world of officialdom was at the mercy of high level political prescriptions emanating from the former Prime Ministers Office. For every one officer who decides to opt out of the system of FTA mindless negotiations sans a coherent Trade Policy for the same, there would be a hundred acolytes and torch bearers to take his/her place (inflicting greater injury on the Nation) in their zeal to please their political masters, sometimes within the same Ministry/Department. As one who has discreetly, but voluntarily withdrawn from the Negotiating Team on such bilateral FTAs albeit with diplomatic finesse and tact, I would say that Public Officials are constrained to follow the Political dictates of Cabinet Decisions. However, one’s Conscience can inevitably find a way of opting out!

A pertinent example of Political Policy Prescription operating in the vacuum of an absent National Trade Policy is the Cabinet Decision /the decision of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Management (2017), for Sri Lanka to agree to China’s request to reduce tariffs on 90% of our tariff lines leaving only 10% of tariff lines free to be protected as sensitive goods. As the reluctant Chair of the Negotiating Committee on Goods, constrained by official position to participate in FTA negotiations albeit for a time, my strategy lay also in damage control and minimum cost options together with advancement of Sri Lanka’s exports to China in a context of political imperatives and Cabinet Decisions to proceed with FTA emanating since 2013 at Heads of Government level. However, these efforts were entirely vitiated by this rather injurious political directive which was at the behest of the then Chief Negotiator and his Advisor in order to clear the impasse in the Goods Negotiations chapter and sign off the FTA according to the deadlines decreed by the Committee on Economic Management of the PM’s Office!

The much-reviled proposed ECTA (Economic Cooperation & Technology Agreement) with India after passing a decade of negotiations under another pseudonym CEPA (Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement) owes its origin to the FTA confined to Goods called the India/Sri Lanka Free Trade Agreement. (ISFTA)All these endeavours are preceded by high level political decision to enter into negotiation and not on Trade Policy per se. After the political decision is given then it is left to the obedient government officials to prepare Joint Study Reports in compliance to the dictates of their Political Masters/Ministers. Thus it is generally other factors as geo political interests, the selective business lobbying of interest groups, the self-protection of the world of government bureaucracy not to incur the wrath of the political hierarchy by holding out opposite positions, etc that hold sway above any notion of an overall consistent and coherent Trade Policy in the best interests of the country.

In the case of proposed Sri Lanka/Bangladesh FTA, too, political imperative over trade policy continued to hold sway with the enthusiasm of the latter to hold its first bilateral FTA negotiations with a country like Sri Lanka! Understandably enough with only political directives and friendly Joint Studies to boot, Sri Lanka would be an easy prey in negotiations!

As the former Director General of Commerce participating and spearheading the WTO Trade Policy Review of Sri Lanka during the period 2010 – 2015 I would like to emphasize that the trade policy reviews and reports of the WTO are specific in purpose for ascertaining the WTO compliance of members in particular. In this regard I would like to flag the following:

The TPRM is the major channel by which the WTO ensures the Accountability, Predictability and Transparency which are the core values of the Multilateral Rule based Trading system.

The basic purpose of Trade Policy Review Mechanism of the World Trade Organization( WTO TPRM) of which Sri Lanka has an obligatory participation as a member is to "contribute to improved adherence by all Members to rules, disciplines and commitments made under the Multilateral Trade Agreements and, where applicable, the Plurilateral Trade Agreements, and hence to the smoother functioning of the multilateral trading system, by achieving greater transparency in, and understanding of, the trade policies and practices of Members". (Annex 3 Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the WTO of 15/04/1994)

The review is undertaken by Economists of the WTO Secretariat together with Reports of Government Ministry/Departments representatives on approved format of the Trade Policy Review Body wherein a lengthy audit of the country’s regulations, practices relating to a wide array of trade policy components are analysed particularly in relation to their level of compliance to the multilateral rule based system of the World Trade Organization and GATT rules.

Sri Lanka concluded a successful Trade Policy Review for the period 2010 – 2015 in November 2016.The importance of this exercise lay in showcasing and validating the country for its WTO compliant business friendly economic environment to the rest of the world’s trading partners. The WTO TPRM of 2016 for Sri Lanka during the period 2010 – 2015 also recorded many accolades and praise by major trading partners including the EU, USA our major export destinations.

Conclusions:

It is more than a matter of semantics therefore whether the WTO Trade Policy Review of Sri Lanka constitutes a National Trade Policy, especially when such Review is time bound, was for a period in the past, has little continuity or consistency due to intervening political policy prescriptions.

The foregoing analysis of arbitrary political policy prescriptions generating Free Trade Agreements indicates a serious lacuna in National Trade Policy. It explains in part the reason for the contention that there is no National Trade Policy in Sri Lanka.

The mere existence of standard components of trade policy practice and measure do not denote a comprehensive, effective, National Trade Policy in Sri Lanka. Nevertheless countries including Sri Lanka do have some measure of Trade Policy in force.

Given that truth is relative and may lie in between two absolute positions of one claiming that there is no trade policy and the other that there is a trade policy, it is apparent that there is no trade policy applied in favour of Sri Lanka’s national interest.

Therefore, the need for a National Trade Policy for Sri Lanka is paramount.

Apart from Trade Policy on Free Trade Agreements, it is a fact that the liberalisation of tariffs, reforms in the incentive regime for agriculture and industry, are often dictated by donor agencies and lending organizations. Unlike in the Far East, Sri Lanka did not engage in phased out liberalization, the supporting of thrust industries and carefully planned removal of trade restrictions. The post-1977 trade reforms era saw a generalized open sesame approach that resulted in the closure of many local industries.

It is a fact that a team of former Advisors of the Ministry of International Trade and Development Strategy wrote up a document entitled "New Trade Policy" for Cabinet Approval during the yahapalanaya regime as an immediate reaction to the public outcry by stakeholders and professionals that there was no Trade Policy in Sri Lanka particularly in the climate of increasing FTA negotiations. I reserve my comments on this abjectly expedient, unprofessional "New Trade Policy" conspired and authored by a few Advisors to the former regime, since the Presidential Committee of Experts on International Trade has already made their observations clear in their report.

According to UNCTAD/UNDP studies, the reason why most Free Trade Agreements do not bring anticipated market access outcomes in developing countries is the fact that they are driven by vested interests of particular business groups to the detriment of the larger majority of small and medium industrialists and socio-economic capacity concerns.

An overall national trade policy that is consistent and integrated with the rest of the economy and environment becomes an essential and important catalyst especially given the familiar synergies between business and politics in Sri Lanka that results in skewed partisan policy making. Trade policy statements relating to joining the global value chain, integrating into globalization processes, ‘opening up the economy’ are mere puff and will not constitute a responsible rational National Trade Policy for Sri Lanka unless they are accompanied by clear cut plans for unilateral domestic policy reform, infrastructural and productivity improvements, development of a competitive and diversified export base, strengthened phytosanitary (SPS)TBT and Services regulatory regime and creation of an enabling business environment.