Lotte Duty Free (LDF) has praised the first Chinese package customers to visit its stores as part of an incentive trip since the outbreak of the THAAD missile dispute, as “invigorating news”.

Lotte recently welcomed 4,000 Chinese package tourists to its Meyong-dong Main Store and World-tower Store from 10 to 12 January on an incentive trip, when the queues were notable, according to the retailer.

“It was the first package customers visiting LDF after the outbreak of the THAAD dispute, which is invigorating news,” a Lotte Duty Free spokesperson told DFNI. “The sales from them were not so huge. However, their visit means a lot to the Korean travel retail industry.”

Their visit means a lot to the Korean travel retail industry – Lotte Duty Free

Chinese package tourists were once the cornerstone of South Korea’s travel retail market growth, but the THAAD missile dispute, which resulted in Beijing-enforced travel sanctions, and the rise of Free Independent Tourists, have impacted the sector.

A Lotte Duty Free spokesperson noted: “They visited Korea for an incentive trip. In other words, they were not pure package tourists. We still have to see if Chinese package tourists will begin to visit as well.”

There are, however, “many hopeful signs” on the return of Chinese package tourists, the spokesperson said, adding: “The return of Chinese package tourists is eagerly awaited by all the duty-free operators in Korea. Obviously, things are getting better every year.”

Chinese leader Xi Jinping’s impending visit to South Korea in 2020 has renewed optimism in the travel retail market and the return of package tourism.

We expect that this visit could be the turning point of rising demand from Chinese travellers – HDC Shilla Duty Free

UPDATE: An official from HDC Shilla Duty Free has also confirmed to DFNI that the tourists also visited Shilla IPark Duty Free , which is operated by HDC Shilla Duty Free.

The official added: “We expect that this visit could be the turning point of rising demand from Chinese travellers.”

For the full report on South Korea and further comments from the country’s largest duty free operators, head to the upcoming DFNI January-February 2020 issue