‘China comes to the rescue …’

From the above titled news item, it would appear CEB engineers have two different views. One section is of the opinion ‘Even the Chinese are fond of the plant ...This may be the reason they want to help us. A soft loan from China is the best option as regards the fourth plant at Norochcholai". Whether China is generous to help us or establish themselves as a power in the Asian region is another matter, but the gesture should be appreciated.

The other section of CEB engineers has a different legal view when they say ‘Unless it is government to government, competitive bidding would be the best way. The Electricity Act clearly says, apart from government to government project, the Board can make a decision in times of crisis’. International bidding would make China to quote the lowest possible. Do not forget, China will engage its own men, materials and machinery and pay themselves the entire loan, leaving us to pay the loan with whatever interest, they propose. It could be even free of interest as they would as stated earlier, be paying their own men and manufacturing industry, thus depriving our skilled and unskilled hands of employment.

In this context, it is best to remind the present government of the offer made by Japan, when the then President Mahinda Rajapaksa visited Japan, and subsequently by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, to set up a Coal Plant in Sri Lanka. If Japan desires, she could make this offer almost free or consider it as a grant or donation to further strengthen Japan - Sri Lanka ties. Japan is ever grateful to Sri Lanka for the stand taken by J.R.Jayawardene at the epoch San Francisco Peace Conference in 1951 where the Asian Review from Delhi reported: "During the San Francisco Peace Conference in 1951, Jayawardhana declared that Sri Lanka would even waive its rights to claim reparation for Japan, quoting a message from Buddha - Hatred ceases not by hatred but by love. Moved by his stirring speech, representatives from victorious allied nations which were demanding that sanctions be imposed on Japan, accepted the defeated country back into the international community."

Whatever CEB engineers say, State Minister for Power and Energy, Mahindananda Aluthgamage has said that he will call for International tenders for this addition.

It is also reported that State Minister Aluthgamage will be visiting China shortly, and it is hoped he will not be cajoled to change his stand to call for international tenders. Politicians are fragile and could twist, bend and turn. Aren’t they? Let us await the final decision.

G.A.D.SIRIMAL

Boralesgamuwa