Stowaway kitty travels from China to Prince George

Journey’s interests include cuddling in fuzzy blankets, gazing out the window and lounging on her scratching post. Image Credit: SUBMITTED/BCSPCA

February 15, 2020 - 6:00 PM

Journey has some impressive adventures over her nine lives — not the least of which being her three and a half week trip from Shenzhen, China to Prince George in a storage container.

Now, she's ready for the biggest challenge of all — family life.

Journey, as she was named by SPCA staff, was found inside a shipping container last April.

She survived the voyage without food or water by drinking the condensation that had formed on the container walls. When discovered, Journey was weak, emaciated and terrified of human contact.

“SPCA staff and volunteers have spent hundreds of hours caring for six-year-old Journey, ensuring that she received life-saving medical treatment and on-going behaviour modification to help her overcome her extreme fear of humans,” BC SPCA spokesperson Lorie Chortyk said, in a press release.

“When she was well enough, she was transferred from Prince George to the Lower Mainland, where she has been fostered for the past several months by Dr. Karen van Haaften, a board-certified veterinary behaviourist and the BC SPCA’s senior manager of behaviour and welfare.”

Chortyk says that Journey has made incredible progress through her daily behaviour sessions with Dr. van Haaften, but she may never be a cat who seeks out attention or enjoys being pet.

“But she loves to play and can now tolerate being touched. She is ready for a forever home where she can continue to build trust with people.”

Now Journey needs a home in Metro Vancouver or the Lower Mainland.

She’s seeking a calm, adult-only home with a predicable routine.

An indoor-only lifestyle in a small home (condo or apartment) would suit her best, with no other cats and a guardian who is willing to continue her touch-tolerance training and provide lots of playtime and enrichment.

Experience with under-socialized cats would be an asset, but the SPCA can provide training and ongoing support for her behaviour needs.

In addition to playtime, Journey’s interests include cuddling in fuzzy blankets, gazing out the window and lounging on her scratching post.

If you think you might be Journey’s special match, please fill in an online adoption application.

To contact a reporter for this story, email Kathy Michaels or call 250-718-0428 or email the editor. You can also submit photos, videos or news tips to the newsroom and be entered to win a monthly prize draw.

We welcome your comments and opinions on our stories but play nice. We won't censor or delete comments unless they contain off-topic statements or links, unnecessary vulgarity, false facts, spam or obviously fake profiles. If you have any concerns about what you see in comments, email the editor in the link above.