Chinese New Year is one of the biggest annual celebrations across the globe. This time around, however, the city of Dubai will be hosting the grandest festivities in the world to mark the beginning of the Chinese New Year which begins on January 25. Dubai Holding and Meraas, Hala China, have joined forces to launch a wide range of cultural events. Speculated to be both bigger and better than the previous years, a myriad of cultural performances will take place across Dubai from January 16 through to February 8, 2020. A few of them include the Lion Dance Competition, The China Box, Kite Festival, Miss Tumbler, The Grand Parade and more. On Friday, January 17, the celebrations started from Al Mustaqbal Street at City Walk. The area was filled with colours of China – specifically red and yellow – for the month-long festivities across the city. The event is expecting more than 50,000 visitors, with a schedule of traditional Chinese performances, festivals, parades, dances and competitions, reported Khaleej Times.

Chinese New Years in the UAE

Hundreds of Chinese expatriates, Emiratis and people of different nationalities headed to the City Walk streets to witness a spectacular grand parade, featuring enormous dragons, acrobatic performers and traditional dancers. Over 40 groups, including schools, Chinese expatriates, resident Chinese business chambers, as well as a marching band from the Dubai Police took part along with performers from China at the parade. Visitors of City Walk got the chance to see a symphony orchestra, dragon and lion dances, acrobatics and Kung Fu, among other displays. Over 4,000 participants took part in what is said to be the biggest Chinese New Year parade in Dubai.

Chinese New Years in the UAE

Mohammad Saeed Al Shehhi, member of the Board of Directors of Hala China, said the celebrations are the biggest celebration of Chinese New Year outside China. He said, "With these festivities, we mark a new era in the UAE-China relations. China has remained one of the UAE's biggest and most important trading partners and this year, our bilateral trade is expected to reach more that Dh250 billion which is a clear sign of our productive relationship. As many as 680 new business licences were issued to Chinese companies in 2019. With over 200,000 Chinese expats residing in the UAE, we are proud that Hala China activities have quickly become a highlight of Dubai' calendar.”