Ri Son Gwon. (Kyodo)

BEIJING (Kyodo) -- North Korea has appointed a former military officer as foreign minister, diplomatic sources said Monday, after the country voiced eagerness to bolster its defense capabilities amid stalled nuclear talks with the United States.

According to the sources, North Korea has notified nations with which it has diplomatic relations that Ri Son Gwon, former head of the Committee for Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland, a state organization, is succeeding Ri Yong Ho.

Foreign affairs experts say this indicates North Korean leader Kim Jong Un may intend to strengthen the country's confrontational approach to the United States, with Washington showing little sign it is ready to concede ground in denuclearization negotiations.

Ri Son Gwon has served as a representative to inter-Korean military talks since the mid-2000s. He is seen close to former military officer Kim Yong Chol, vice chairman of the ruling Workers' Party of Korea and a hard-liner on United States policy matters.

Ri Yong Ho, meanwhile, is well-versed in U.S. policy, as he was a representative at the long-dormant six-party talks on North Korea's nuclear program, which included China, Japan, Russia, South Korea and the United States.

He is also a career diplomat who was North Korea's ambassador to Britain and held posts at embassies in Zimbabwe and Sweden, before he became foreign minister in 2016.

Late last week, North Korea informed embassies in Pyongyang it would replace its foreign minister, the sources said. But it has not announced this through its state-run media.

A spokesman of South Korea's Unification Ministry said Monday the South is trying to confirm whether Ri Yong Ho has been replaced by Ri Son Gwon.

At a key ruling party meeting in late December, Kim Jong Un pledged to unveil a "new strategic weapon" in the "near future," while retracting his promise to refrain from intercontinental ballistic missile or nuclear tests.

Pyongyang had warned it would take a "new path" unless Washington shifted its "hostile" stance by the end of 2019, suggesting it may end the bilateral denuclearization negotiations that started in early 2018 but which have since stalled.