HONG KONG (China Daily/ANN): The central government's new liaison office chief in Hong Kong pledged on Thursday (Jan 9) to uphold the "one country, two systems" principle, fully respect and support Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor and the special administrative region government's law-based governance, and put the city back on track.

Luo Huining, director of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR, who took office on Saturday, made the remarks during his first official meeting with the chief executive at Government House on Thursday afternoon.

According to the news release issued by the liaison office, both Luo and Lam shared the objective of upholding the "one country, two systems" principle and maintaining Hong Kong's long-term prosperity and stability by safeguarding the city's rule of law, ending violence and restoring the city's order.

They also agreed to enhance communication and collaboration between the liaison office and the SAR government, to boost the city's economic development, enhance people's livelihoods and facilitate Hong Kong's integration into the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area.

Luo and Lam both said they believe Hong Kong can get back on track and embrace further development, with the country's unswerving care and support and the concerted efforts of various sectors in the city, the news release said.

In addition, the new liaison chief expressed his high regard for Lam's courage and commitment in leading the SAR government to end the violent protests that broke out last June, and her efforts to aid local enterprises and improve people's livelihoods during the difficult time.

In the meeting, Lam introduced Luo to the administration's work over the past two years.

The SAR government will continue to strive to end violence and safeguard the rule of law in accordance with the Basic Law and the "one country, two systems" principle, and provide assistance to enterprises and residents when necessary, Lam pledged during the meeting.

On Wednesday, Luo also made his first official visit to Shenzhen as the new liaison chief, meeting Shenzhen Party Secretary Wang Weizhong, Shenzhen Mayor Chen Rugui, and other leaders of the city's administration, legislature and political advisory body.

During the meeting, both sides vowed to strictly uphold the "one country, two systems" principle, and jointly promote cooperation between the two cities in various sectors, including youth innovation and entrepreneurship, the economy and trade, and the development of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. - China Daily/Asia News Network