Editor: Wang Liyan

The Women's Federation of Yunnan Province holds an activity to care for disadvantaged and left-behind children in Yijiu Village in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture, Southwest China's Yunnan Province, on January 10. [ThePaper]

"I'm very happy today. I not only received gifts and blessings from the aunties but also drew sun, clouds and bees with the aunty from the women's federation," said Li Zongyu, a pupil from Yijiu, a village in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture, in Southwest China's Yunnan Province.

"My parents have migrated to other place for work. I live with my grandparents. An aunty chatted with me, and we drew pictures together. I am so happy. I like the gift. I will study hard and grow up happily," said Pu Zhilong, 8, a pupil who attended the activity.

Li and Pu were among the 80 disadvantaged children and left-behind children (whose parents have migrated to other places for work) who received gift packages from the Women's Federation of Yunnan Province during an activity held in Yijiu Village to care for disadvantaged and left-behind children on January 10.

Gao Mei, Vice-President of the province's women's federation, said she hopes the scarves and gloves in the gift packages will bring warmth to the children, the lamps and flashlights will bring them light, and the book Ordinary World by novelist Lu Yao will inspire them.

The activity is part of a nationwide campaign titled "Taking Love Home" launched by the All-China Women's Federation, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and several other departments and organizations last December, which aims to bring care to disadvantaged children during the winter vacation and the Spring Festival.

An official of the women's federation draws pictures with a girl during the activity held in Yijiu Village to care for disadvantaged and left-behind children on January 10. [ThePaper]

On January 7, officials of the Women's Federation of Kunming City, Yunnan Province, visited students in an elementary school in Xundian Hui and Yi Autonomous County. They gave school uniforms to 85 impoverished students, and they also gave financial assistance and down coats to extraordinarily impoverished student. They helped the school establish a library worth nearly 40,000 yuan (US $5,802.73).

On the same day, the Women's Federation of Longyang District in Baoshan City joined hands with donors and volunteers to hand out stationery to pupils in Pinglinzi Primary School and Sanping Primary School in Wadu Township in Longyang.

The Women's Federation of Ruili City and Ruili Women and Children's Development Center presented schoolbags, trousers and slippers to more than 70 students in Hulan Primary School on January 8.

Recently, the women's federations at all levels in the province called on people of all walks of life and the families across the province to volunteer to give care to disadvantaged and left-behind children, to spread good family traditions to the families, and to protect children's safety.

Pupils in Yijiu Village in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture, Southwest China's Yunnan Province, draw colorful pictures during the activity held in Yijiu Village to care for disadvantaged and left-behind children on January 10. [ThePaper]

(Source: China Women's News/Translated and edited by Women of China)