Boxes await rolled twin mattresses at the new MLily USA factory.

It sat empty for almost a decade, silently waiting for a rescue that looked unlikely. But then the mattress world changed, and a global bedding player came calling.

Now the former Guardian Building Products factory in Winnsboro, S.C., has a dynamic new future, thanks to the arrival of MLily USA, the U.S. business unit of China-based Healthcare Co.

An investment of almost $50 million brought the sprawling factory back to life. The grand results were on display last month when MLily hosted a grand opening for its 650,000-square-foot facility. I joined the crowd of more than 200 industry leaders and local and state dignitaries at the festive event.

Healthcare Co. CEO James Ni (rhymes with “me”) talked about the growth his company has experienced in recent years. “Great product and perfect timing are keys to our success,” he said.

Ni admitted that the antidumping ruling that imposed steep duties on Chinese-made mattresses hurt his business, but said he was happy to settle into his new factory in Winnsboro, which will “help us survive.”

MLily is writing an impressive growth story, one that looks to only grow bigger in the years to come.

The Winnsboro plant, which will employ more than 200, is the company’s fifth bedding plant, joining facilities in China, Serbia, Spain and Thailand. That gives the company several options to continue serving the U.S. bedding market without relying on Chinese mattress production, Ni said.

Local and state officials were thrilled to welcome MLily to Winnsboro, a small town (2010 population: 3,550) that sees its fortunes take a big turn upward. The mayor says Winnsboro is often referred to as the “Charleston of the Upcountry.” I wonder if a new name is in order: The U.S. Manufacturing Home of MLily.

The factory will serve MLily’s North American bedding customers, and it marks another major move by Healthcare. “Now Made in the USA” was the message displayed at the factory.

A few months ago Healthcare also made headlines with the announcement that it was acquiring Mor Furniture for Less, the San Diego-based retail chain. The company’s global footprint continues to expand in dramatic fashion as it builds out its new business model.

The mattresses built at the new MLily plant in Winnsboro will all be going into boxes. That’s the new bedding model that has transformed the bedding industry and, in the process, brought new life to a long-dormant factory.