About $3 million will go toward the Akron warehouse expansion and $8.5 million will go toward the Canton warehouse and pantry.

CANTON The Akron-Canton Regional Foodbank has raised $8.5 million of the $11.5 million needed to build in Canton and expand in Akron.

"We have a lot of momentum for this campaign, but we are not done yet," said President and CEO Daniel Flowers.

The capital campaign is separate from the annual Harvest for Hunger campaign that supports food distribution.

Flowers said about $3 million will go toward the Akron warehouse expansion and $8.5 million will go toward the Canton warehouse and pantry at 1365 Cherry Ave. NE.

The total expansion will triple cooler space, lessen the travel distance for partners in the greater Canton area and engage up to 300 more pantries, shelters and other agencies.

"The impact of this project is going to be significant," Flowers said during Thursday’s announcement at The Canton Repository building on Market Avenue S.

The solution to hunger is getting surplus food to those in need, he said, but the food bank has been limited by space. In 2019, the food bank distributed 32.4 million pounds of food to 500 local charities, providing 25.2 million meals.

"Yet despite those best efforts, we know there are still people struggling with food insecurity and hunger right here in our community," Flowers said.

frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen>

Some of the early funding came from an in-kind donation from the Fisher family, which operated Fishers Foods at the Cherry Avenue NE site until late January 2018. The city of Canton committed Community Development Block Grant money, and the Stark Community Foundation — which commissioned a study on food insecurity — gave its largest-ever grant.

The J.M. Smucker Company — also one of the top contributors to the capital campaign; Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company; and The Timken Company volunteered their industry connections and expertise for the facility plans. Beaver Constructors Inc., whose affiliate also donated $100,000 or more, is the general contractor for the project.

Several other investors were recognized Thursday at the kickoff event attended by city officials and community leaders.

frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen>

William Shivers, a Huntington Bank executive, and Janelle Lee, of the Manufacturing Advocacy and Growth Network (MAGNET), are co-chairs of the Growing for Good capital campaign.

Flowers said the food bank aims to break ground in the coming months and open the new spaces in summer of 2021.

Initially, about three to six new hires will work at the Canton site along with some transferred employees. Flowers said he expects to hire 20 to 25 new employees within five years.

The food bank has operated out of the Akron warehouse, 350 Opportunity Parkway, for 12 years. Flowers said the expansion there will be on the south side of the building.

Both locations will have community spaces. The Canton facility will have a community kitchen, collaborative office space and an on-site pantry.

The extra space will allow the nonprofit to serve more people through its "full-menu of programming," Flowers said.

Reach Kelly at 330-580-8323 or kelly.byer@cantonrep.com

On Twitter: @kbyerREP