L’Oréal’s hero skincare brand Lancôme Génifique is at the centre of a new Chinese New Year themed pop-up, shaped like a Chinese lantern and in residence for the Lunar New Year holiday at Changi Airport.

The exclusive retail concept offers several interactive stations for travellers to explore the two seasonal product launches for Advanced Génifique and Absolue Cushion, while inside the lantern there is a focus on try-on technology for the range of Lancôme lipsticks via an AR screen.

Several interactive elements are installed within the pop-up: a giant Advanced Génifique bottle with a digital screen and iPad stands at the entrance for travellers to send their Chinese New Year wishes onto the screen; a QR code opens a branded game for further product information delivered via guests’ smartphones. Guests can also take home lanterns, which they put together decorated with the Lancôme logo.

“2020 marks a new cycle, a new cycle of happiness, beauty and success. And what better occasion than the Chinese New Year to celebrate with our dear partners and all our dear customers. And as always, our partnership is anchored on innovation; retail innovation in travel retail to bring the whole consumer experience to another level, and this is where we are so proud today to present you this pop up, all exclusively designed, for a Changi/Lancôme only experience across the region” said Ms Tao Zhang, General Manager, Travel Retail Asia Pacific, Lancôme.

Lancôme’s Chinese New Year advertising campaign featuring actresses Amanda Seyfried and Lily Collins, is featured as part of the pop-up. The ad depicts the two women travelling across the Seine, and globe hopping through to Shanghai where they come across a young Chinese girl who ushers them into the New Year. The story provides the inspiration behind the Lancôme pop-up at Changi, said the brand.

Ms Tao Zhang explained that the depiction of a new cycle beginning in the ad is a large part of the inspiration of the pop-up, and breaks from the traditional Chinese New Year animal setting.

The focus is to create experiences for the travellers, she explained. “It’s very important to be connecting with the consumers…we’re celebrating Chinese New Year, not by a product, but you remembering that experience. Your personalised wish, in addition to the lantern making and a few other things.”

Lancôme has seen growth in every major market and is the fastest growing among the top brands – Ms Tao Zhang

In an exclusive interview with DFNI, Ms Tao Zhang shared her positivity about the high-level growth that has already been seen by Lancôme consistently over the last three years. Despite struggles in areas such as Hong Kong and other first-tier airports, areas such as Hainan, Vietnam and Cambodia are showing potential to be highly successful.

“One of the key trends, and I think it’s recent, is the big brands getting bigger. When you look at the past couple of years, you see the market share of the top brands, they’re growing faster and grabbing more of the market, and it is very rare. In some of the other markets you see the young indie brands grabbing shares, and people worry in a few years it will be the end of the mass brand, the mainstream brands. The trends come and go, but the big brands like Lancôme are still growing faster. Lancôme has seen growth in every major market and is the fastest growing among the top brands.”

As a strong established brand, Ms Tao Zhang believes that success for Lancôme has come from having a brand that works. The repurchase rate shows the sustainability of the brand in such a competitive robust market. With strict legal lab approval processes, and studies into consumer needs with the mega L’Oréal network, she says that consumers can trust that products work and that has been a strong contributor in their customer loyalty.

“A big part of the growth comes from the continuous growing of pillar products like Génifique or Absolue. But every year we have a big part of our growth comes from our new products. We keep innovating ourselves, with a balance between a solid historical pillar that people keep coming back to buy, and then you have all the new products that keep on driving and building the consumer space.”