Cortland, NY (WHCU) – Cortland County Legislator and Minority Leader Beau Harbin today announced his candidacy for the New York State Assembly 125th District. “As I listened to Barbara Lifton make her announcement that she was not seeking another term as our Assemblywoman, I was stuck by the incredible legacy of leadership and progressive values she has left on our district. She has done many things for our community and fought many fights to help make our region and our state better. I knew then that her legacy needed to continue with someone dedicated to these same values, “ Harbin said. Harbin is announcing his candidacy in order to ensure Barbara Lifton’s legacy continues. He understands what it takes to lead on progressive values in a rural Central New York community: leadership that brings people together, protects our most vulnerable citizens, and keeps our community safe and welcoming to all.

Beau Harbin is intimately familiar with the issues facing rural communities, college towns, and post-industrial centers. He was born in Flint, Michigan, raised in Charlottesville, Virginia, and lives in Cortland, New York. Harbin has worked for over 20 years as an IT leader and is currently managing an international team of consultants and a global training operation for an international software company. His wife Andrea and he moved their family to Cortland 12 years ago so she could take a faculty position with SUNY Cortland. Since moving here, he has become deeply involved, twice serving as president of the parent’s organization at his children’s school, then served as Vice Chair of the Cortland City Zoning Board of Appeals. Harbin determined that he could contribute further to the community by running for the County Legislature, and since winning his seat twice, has served on numerous legislative committees (Chair of Buildings and Grounds; Judiciary and Public Safety; Agriculture, Planning and Environment to name a few), and recently was selected to be the Legislature’s Minority Leader. Harbin is also currently a board member for both the Cornell Cooperative Extension of Cortland County and the Cortland County Planning Board, as well as serving as the Vice Chair for the Southern Tier 8 Regional Planning Board.

In his time on the Cortland County Legislature, Harbin has consistently stood up for what is right and just and have fought the hard battles to ensure the Legislature did not leave people behind. He has pushed for open and transparent government to make sure everyone is aware of and understands what decisions are being made. Harbin led opposition against resolutions and motions that would seek to undermine our democratic ideals and continue to force people to hide in the shadows. He has promoted solutions for the Cortland community on climate change, smart economic development, and good government. According to Harbin: “Great ideas come from many places, which is why I have been actively involved in working with other leaders across our state. Also as an Appalachian Leadership Institute fellow, I have collaborated with leaders across the larger Appalachian region in order to see how our shared issues can be addressed.” Harbin believes strongly in the idea that government, in conjunction with private and not-for-profit partners, can be a positive force for good and a protector in our community, our state, and our nation.

Looking forward to the proposed 2021 budget for New York, there is much to be proud of and excited about. Significant investments and attention will be given to environmental protection, climate change, infrastructure, cannabis legalization and more. A strong advocate for our district will be needed to work tirelessly to ensure that these benefits reach the community. Too often the direction of spending on tax dollars benefits communities downstate, and Harbin will strongly advocate for our Upstate region. In addition, there are many critically important issues missing from the budget and from the Governor’s priorities. Why aren’t we expanding and investing in childcare and in universal pre-K education for all NY children? Why is the cost of education continuing to climb and our schools continue to be underfunded? Why aren’t we eliminating the digital divide by ensuring rural broadband expansion? Why is the expansion and investment in affordable housing through renovation of older housing stock or smart development of new affordable housing getting more attention? And why are we not focused on delivering on the most critical issue for all New York families: covering all residents’ healthcare through the NY York Health Act? Harbin says “So many of these critical needs for our district are not being addressed or are being lost in the voices from downstate. I will be our vocal advocate in Albany to bring attention to these issues and will work hard to make sure our community is well represented.”