The GSMA continues to monitor and assess the potential impact of the Coronavirus on MWC Barcelona 2020. The GSMA confirms that there remains minimal impact on the event thus far. MWC Barcelona 24-27 February 2020, will proceed as planned, across all venues at Fira Gran Via Fira Montjuïc and La Farga L’Hospitalet, including YoMo and Four Years From Now (4YFN).

Spain, the City of Barcelona and the GSMA look forward to welcoming attendees to MWC Barcelona 2020. The first deputy mayor of Barcelona, ​​Jaume Collboni, guaranteed on Wednesday 5 February, that during MWC Barcelona there would be ‘permanent coordination’ with the health authorities, as a preventive measure against the outbreak of coronavirus. He stressed at a press event, the close and coordinated relationship between institutions, the GSMA and health authorities.

As previously stated, the GSMA has implemented many measures to help to mitigate the spread of the virus and is continuing to add other actions regularly. In particular, there are additional health measures that have been put in place which include:

A free 24-hour telephone Security and Medical service for all attendees, operational from 12-29 February 2020. This number appears on the back of badge holders, in the event App and on signage around the venue: +34 900 77 2020

Hygiene recommendations to Barcelona hotels, public and private transport, restaurants and catering outlets, etc.

The GSMA has reinforced the on-site first aid facilities to assist attendees

Developed plans in alignment with the Public Health Authority Services which are subject to medical and health authority approval.

The GSMA is building on its existing plans to protect the health of our attendees, clients and staff at MWC Barcelona. Colleagues around the world are taking active measures to contain and lessen any further spread of the virus. These measures include adhering to advice from the WHO and other health authorities, respecting travel restrictions where they exist, arriving early in Spain to allow time for self-quarantine and ensuring access to masks.

Up-to-date WHO advice and facts can be found here: www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/technical-guidance.

Further updates from the GSMA, answers to the most frequently asked questions and an outline of the measures that have been implemented, are on our website and can be found on www.mwcbarcelona.com.

About the GSMA



The GSMA represents the interests of mobile operators worldwide, uniting more than 750 operators and nearly 400 companies in the broader mobile ecosystem, including handset and device makers, software companies, equipment providers and internet companies, as well as organisations in adjacent industry sectors. The GSMA also produces the industry-leading MWC events held annually in Barcelona, Shanghai and Los Angeles, as well as the Mobile 360 Series of regional conferences.

For more information, please visit the GSMA corporate website at www.gsma.com. Follow the GSMA on Twitter: @GSMA.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200206005911/en/