Decision follows meeting with the Chinese community

Venkat Raman

Auckland, February 4, 2020

Auckland Council has announced that the Lantern Festival, scheduled to be held from February 13, 2020 has been cancelled as the Coronavirus continues to take its toll in mainland China.

Auckland Tourism, Events and Economic Development (ATEED), which conducts the annual festival, the largest cultural event in the country, said that the decision to cancel was reached following a meeting of the leaders of the community today.

General Manager (Destination) Steve Armitage said that the community expressed growing concern over the evolving Coronavirus disease in China.

“We fully respect the wishes of the Chinese community who have shared their culture and tradition with Aucklanders through the Lantern Festival for 21 years,” he said.

No Coronavirus in New Zealand

However, the decision was entirely due to the sentiments of the Chinese community. The Health Ministry has clarified that there are no reported cases of the virus in New Zealand.

The Lantern Festival was first held in 2000, the year in which the Asia New Zealand Foundation (then called Asia 2000 Foundation) was established by the then Prime Minister Helen Clark to celebrate New Zealand’s growing diversity through cultural programmes and major festivals of the resident communities.

Three years later (in 2003), the first Diwali Festival was held with the support of Indian Newslink and Auckland Indian Association at Mahatma Gandhi Centre in Eden Terrace.

Mr Armitage said that the planning for Lantern Festival 2020 began last year with many stakeholders including sponsors.

“We would like to thank our commercial partners, performers, volunteers, stallholders, local businesses and festival staff for their understanding,” he said.

Respecting community sentiments

Auckland Mayor Phil Goff described the Lantern Festival as a popular and much-anticipated fixture on Auckland’s events calendar.

“It is sad that the festival will not be going ahead this year, but it is important to respect the wishes of Auckland’s Chinese community, many of whom do not feel it is appropriate to celebrate the Festival given the ongoing Coronavirus outbreak in China and its toll on life there. I look forward to the Lantern Festival returning to Auckland next year and its celebration of Chinese culture and Auckland’s multiculturism,” he said.

About the Lantern Festival

The Lantern Festival is a Chinese Festival celebrated on the fifteenth day of the first month in the lunisolar Chinese calendar. Usually observed in February or early March on the Gregorian calendar, it marks the final day of the traditional Chinese New Year celebrations.

As early as the Western Han Dynasty (206 BCE-CE 25), it had become a Festival with great significance. During the Lantern Festival, children go out at night carrying paper lanterns and solve riddles on the lanterns

In ancient times, the lanterns were fairly simple, and only the Emperor and noblemen had large ornate ones

In modern times, lanterns have been embellished with many complex designs.

For example, lanterns are now often made in the shape of animals.

The lanterns can symbolise the people letting go of their past selves and getting new ones, which they will let go of the next year.

The lanterns are almost always red to symbolise good fortune.

The Festival acts as an Uposatha day on the Chinese calendar.

It should not be confused with the Mid-Autumn Festival; which is sometimes also known as the Lantern Festival in Singapore and Malaysia

The Lantern Festival has also become popular in Western countries, especially in cities with a large Chinese community.

After Christmas, the Lantern Festival is most popular event held in Auckland.