Jeff Kliewer, CEO and co-founder of Viewspark, and his daughter Alexa Joy attended Shen Yun Performing Arts at the California Center for the Performing Arts in Escondido, Calif., on Jan. 17, 2020. (Jana Li/The Epoch Times)

ESCONDIDO, Calif.—The California Center for the Arts hosted a very special evening on Jan. 17, 2020, when Shen Yun Performing Arts debuted its all-new classical Chinese dance performance to a sold-out crowd. And it was a special experience for another reason, too: it was “daddy-daughter time” for one CEO and his 9-year-old.

Jeff Kliewer is the CEO and co-founder of Viewspark, a technology and fundraising company, and his daughter Alexa Joy is a fourth-grader and student of dance. It was the first time for both of them to see the New York-based performing arts company.

“She brought me, just the two of us. She wanted to come, and so we gave it to her for a Christmas present. Mom is at home with our son, and Alexa Joy and I are having a special daddy-daughter night together,” Kliewer said, who went on to describe how much the two enjoyed the show and felt uplifted.

“It’s very cool,” Alexa Joy said. “The music is very unique and pretty.”

Jeff was impressed by the classical Chinese dancing. “It was fascinating to see the bright colors and see how many dancers there are. It’s beautiful, very beautiful. The way they can dance and jump and do the flips.”

Shen Yun’s mission is to revive traditional Chinese culture, an ancient and deeply spiritual civilization that was once almost lost. China’s traditions have always acknowledged the Creator and the role that heavenly beings play in our everyday lives. Shen Yun’s storytelling dances bring back these traditions and Jeff and Alexa Joy appreciated them very much.

Jeff enjoyed the spirituality permeating the performance and could relate it to his own faith as well. From his perspective, beauty is apparent in all divine creation, and Shen Yun expressed a similar culture.

“And so when we see dancing, when we see spirituality, it’s an experience, we do this unto Him. He’s given us this ability; He’s given us this talent to do things, and so it’s neat to see the ability to do that for Him,” he said.

Other stories in the program illuminate humorous scenes from ancient Chinese life as well as true stories of courage happening in China today.

“It’s very neat to see the nice expression of friendliness and warmth. It’s always nice to see when the good people win,” Jeff said.

The dance that stood out to Alexa Joy is “The Miraculous Flute,” a story about a young Taoist, his magical flute, and a scorned wife.

“Alexa Joy really liked the bamboo flute, the green flute dance. That was funny. Very humorous. Very nice,” Jeff said.

The pair had a message for other prospective Shen Yun audience members, and for their mother and brother at home.

“It’s wonderful. I want to come back,” Alexa Joy said.

“Their mission, I think it’s wonderful. They’re certainly reaching a lot of people,” Jeff observed. “This audience is full. There’s not an empty seat in the house, so it’s neat to see that. Very nice, positive influence on the society.”

“I think it’s been a wonderful experience so far, we’ve really enjoyed being here and would definitely come back,” he added.

“Phenomenal. Come back,” Alexa Joy urged people.

“The same,” Jeff said. “Just a beautiful experience. A wonderful evening together.”

With reporting by Jana Li and Brett Featherstone.

The Epoch Times considers Shen Yun Performing Arts the significant cultural event of our time and has covered audience reactions since the company’s inception in 2006.