Alaskan pollock industry leaders met with US government officials in Beijing to discuss the future of the Chinese market on Thursday as part of their 10-day trade mission funded by the US Department of Agriculture's Foreign Agricultural Service's (FAS's) emerging markets program.

Representatives from Trident Seafoods, American Seafoods, Golden Alaska Seafoods, Arctic Storm Holding Company, and the Central Bering Sea Fishermen’s Association talked strategy with senior FAS officials at the US Embassy less than 24 hours before the specifics of the US-China trade deal were announced publicly, according to a press release from the Association of Genuine Alaska Pollock Producers (GAPP), the industry's marketing arm.

This after nearly two weeks of productive meetings with Chinese seafood companies who are "more than eager" to use Alaskan pollock products for domestic consumption, GAPP said.

Trip participants from across the industry recapped for agricultural minister-counselor Bobby Richey and other senior staff key learnings from the mission trip, as well as discussing future opportunities for collaboration between the industry and FAS.

“We were honored to have concluded our trip with a visit to the US Embassy to share with agricultural trade leadership the insights we gathered on the importance of this market to wild Alaska pollock,” said Craig Morris, CEO of GAPP. “Counselor Richey and his team spent significant time with our leaders discussing the changing Chinese consumer, seafood consumption and our desire to build more demand for [pollock] in the Chinese market, immediately.”

While FAS staff couldn’t provide specifics on whether the tariffs facing the industry would be resolved in this or future negotiations, they did provide meaningful suggestions for short-term solutions and noted a strong desire to partner with GAPP and the industry in raising awareness about pollock in China, GAPP reported.

Participants on the trip also heard from major customers, including Ding Wei Tai, China’s largest surimi seafood products producer; Beiyang Jiamei, one of the largest seafood importers in China; as well as Weidao, one of the largest food suppliers to China’s quick service restaurant industry, about their desire to source Alaskan pollock.

"Many conversations centered around how to ‘reintroduce’ the fish to Chinese consumers and build a bold brand for [pollock] throughout China," GAPP said.

“Our meetings this week confirmed that while many Chinese consumers grew up eating seafood, they are only looking to eat more in the coming years, especially with recent disease outbreaks significantly affecting the availability of other popular proteins,” said Morris. “The trends are with us in China and this trip has been instrumental in both building relationships and understanding the market in order to develop a long-term in-country marketing strategy.”

China is the largest surimi seafood products market in the world, yet consumes just one-tenth per capita of the surimi that Korean and Japanese consumers do, GAPP added.