This is the GWM P Series bakkie and it's coming to SA in 2020. Here's all you need to know about this rival to the Ford Ranger, Toyota Hilux and Volkswagen Amarok.

Billed as the most ambitious Chinese double-cab to date, GWM has stated its intentions to become a 'Top 3' bakkie brand with its new P Series.

Design proportions are bold, and the P Series measures 5.4 metres nose-to-tail, 1.86 metres wide and stands 1.93 metres tall. This new Chinese double-cab rides on the P71 ladder-frame platform, which it shares with the Haval H9 large SUV – familiar to South Africans who are followers of the Chinese brand.

The cabin architecture is impressive for a Chinese vehicle with a large touchscreen infotainment system and passenger vehicle-like ergonomics.

Mechanically, the P Series is powered by a 2.0-litre turbocharged petrol which drives all four wheels via an 8-speed ZF automatic transmission. The 2.0-litre four-cylinder engine boosts 140 kW and 360 Nm. GWM has also equipped the P Series with 3 differential locks, which should theoretically give it unrivalled off-road ability. GWM has not yet been clear as to whether the 3 differential locks will be a standard configuration or optional, as part of a dedicated off-road package. Features? Plenty. There is a surround-view camera, rear-view camera and 12 radar pods allow for lane departure warning and adaptive cruise control. All active safety interventions systems are managed by Bosch’s 9.3-generation stability control.

When is it coming to South Africa? During the recent Haval H2 facelift launch in January 2020, we chatted to GWM/Haval staff about its pickup aspirations and they confirmed the P Series introduction in South Africa will begin in April 2020, with the launch of the mid-spec model. The flagship GWM P Series bakkie will be arriving in South Africa towards the end of 2020 and while pricing and spec are yet to be confirmed, we suspect the Chinese will come in with an aggressive pricing strategy.

Buy a new or used GWM on Cars.co.za

Related Content

GWM Teases New Hilux Rival

GWM Extends Warranty in SA