The port of Nansha carried out the first express operation for a shipment of Chilean cherries transported by the Evergreen company. The operation was carried out on December 25 and included the unloading, customs clearance, release, and transport of 23 containers of cherries to the Jiangnan Fruit Wholesale Market. All these activities were completed in two and a half hours, achieving the record of being the fastest and most economical cherry express service in southern China.

To expedite customs clearance and maintain the highest levels of freshness and firmness, Nansha customs applied a special customs clearance modality designed for very delicate fruits, such as cherries, and allowed declaring the shipment before it arrived. Under that framework, only a total of six containers were inspected.

Chinese New Year

The Nansha port area is the closest pier to the Jiangnan wholesale fruit market. Therefore, through the new express service, the products that arrive at the port area of Nansha can reach the Jiangnan fruit wholesale market the same day they are unloaded through Hong Kong.

Containers with cherries that did not require inspection were sent to the Jiangnan Fruit Wholesale Market; five of the remaining containers were transferred from the Haixin Cold Storage Inspection Center to Shanghai and another one to the Jiaxing market in Zhejiang Province.

Several additional lots of Chilean cherries are expected to arrive before the Chinese New Year. To attend these operations, the Nansha port area of the Port of Guangzhou will redouble its efforts to ensure the efficient and trouble-free arrival of these future shipments.

Project for refrigerated cargo

The Port of Guangzhou and the Dalian Yidu Port Cold Chain are cooperating to build six eight-floor cold storage facilities at the Nansha International Logistics Center. The first phase of the project will be completed and will be operational by the end of 2020.

The new facilities will increase storage capacity by 460,000 tons and will make this the largest port for fresh and cold products in southern China. This way, Nansha will be able to offer a cold chain logistics service for fresh food, reducing the number of links, improving efficiency, and reducing transport costs by offering centralized inspection, storage, processing, and distribution logistics, and rapid customs clearance, among other services.

Source: mundomaritimo.cl