CITY HALL -- Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis has now secured top Republican Party support from both sides of the congressional district in her battle against Democratic Rep. Max Rose.

The five-term assemblywoman won the unanimous endorsement of the Brooklyn Republican Party’s Executive Committee on Thursday evening after she won the full endorsement of the Staten Island Republican Party’s Executive Committee just days earlier.

"Nicole Malliotakis is the daughter of immigrants and understands the American Dream because she's lived it. She's a seasoned campaigner and fundraiser who has the skills and the resources needed to win this race. She's a fighter who has the courage to take on Max Rose and his colleagues, Alexandria Ocasio Cortez, Ilhan Omar and the misguided socialist push from the far left. She's an experienced legislator who will take those skills to Washington and put them to work for the voters of Southwest Brooklyn and Staten Island,” said the Brooklyn Republican Party’s Chairman Ted Ghorra.

Executive committee’s endorsements are not full party endorsements. The executive committee’s endorsement is expected to be ratified by the GOP’s full county committee during a borough convention in February, before the June primary race.

On Staten Island, the Republican Party’s executive committee interviewed Malliotakis and two other candidates before it decided to endorse the assemblywoman including her only Republican opponent in the primary race, Brooklyn prosecutor Joseph Caldarera.

The Island’s Republican Party said it did not interview long-rumored prospective GOP congressional candidates Councilman Joe Borelli (R-South Shore) or former GOP Rep. Micheal Grimm.

It’s unclear how many candidates the Republican Party in Brooklyn interviewed before making its decision to endorse Malliotakis or if it interviewed Caldarera. The Party could not immediately be reached for comment and Caldarera’s campaign did not say if he was interviewed by the Brooklyn Republican Party.

"The party bosses may be able to look past the fact that Ms. Malliotakis hates Donald Trump, but the Republicans voters won't. Period,” Caldarera said.

The assemblywoman has repeatedly reiterated her strong support for the president.

The Island’s Republican congressional primary race had initially been off to a somewhat crowded start with Malliotakis, Caldarera and controversial Youtube prankster Joey Saladino in the running.

But Saladino folded his congressional bid in December, a move that essentially cleared the field for Malliotakis in the upcoming primary race against just one opponent.

"I want to thank Chairman Ted Ghorra and the men and women of the Brooklyn Republican Party for their endorsement and support. Since his election, Max Rose has clearly shown us where he stands; he’s voted with Nancy Pelosi over 95% of the time and wasted our time and tax dollars on impeaching President Trump instead of focusing on issues that matter to voters, such as passing the US-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement, improving healthcare and bringing much needed infrastructure funding to fix our subways,” Malliotakis said.

The deadline for prospective congressional candidates to file with the state Board of Elections to run is just three months away in early April, but so far, no other Republicans have announced plans to run in the June primary.

On the Democratic side, as of now, Rose is on his way to running unopposed in the primary race after Democratic Socialist Richard-Olivier Marius told the Advance he dropped out of the running for Congress.

The Island’s Democratic Party has yet to make official endorsements in the NY-11 race but in September, its new Chairman Assemblyman Michael Cusick stressed the importance of getting Rose re-elected to Congress come 2020.

“While I have a record of accomplishment including passing laws to stop the flow of Chinese fentanyl into our communities, permanently fund the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund, increase counterterrorism funding and decrease congestion — the former lobbyist Nicole Malliotakis has spent 10 years in Albany office-shopping with nothing to show for it,” Rose said.

Malliotakis has received support from House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, House Whip Steve Scalise and House Republican Conference Chair Liz Cheney. The Washington Post has ranked NY-11 as one of the top 10 House races to watch in the country.

FOLLOW SYDNEY KASHIWAGI ON TWITTER.