

Interfax.com | Interfax news | Lukashenko orders new Belarusian ambassador to...

Site map

News headlines News headlines



February 11, 2020 19:55

Lukashenko orders new Belarusian ambassador to enhance cooperation with China (Part 2) MINSK. Feb 11 (Interfax) - Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko has instructed newly appointed Belarusian Ambassador to China Nikolai Snopkov to maintain and develop the existing level of Belarusian-Chinese cooperation, despite the difficulties caused by coronavirus. "As you can see, they're going through difficult times, and it's not just about coronavirus. The world has had even more difficult times. The thing is, that in light of this coronavirus, fake news is beginning to be planted in the media," the presidential press service cited Lukashenko as saying at a meeting with Snopkov on Tuesday. "Belarus remains among China's important partners, and the current high level of cooperation must be maintained and developed," Lukashenko said. "The Chinese must know that Belarusians are strong-willed and reliable people, as well as true friends," he said. Snopkov, in turn, told journalists that increasing exports and reducing unnecessary mediators in imports will be among his priority tasks. "We are an export-oriented country. China is an inexhaustible growing market. Its capacity in the medium term is $10 trillion. My task is substantively elaborating on this track while in office. Elaborating on what we can supply to the Chinese market, and most importantly, how to do that in light of the existing trade and customs hindrances and insufficient production output to supply goods in demand on the Chinese market," the state news agency BelTA cited Snopkov as saying. The new ambassador also sees a need for a more rational approach to supplies from China. "Reasonable import is important, especially when it comes to intermediate goods, as they are considerably cost-effective in comparison to similar intermediate goods of the same quality supplied from the Russian Federation and the European Union. For instance, according to the Economy Ministry's estimate, such savings reach about $400 billion a year. It ensures an increase of value added and an increase of GDP," he said. Such increase is caused, among other things, by a growing number of joint Chinese-Belarusian enterprises, Snopkov said. "It's a good, correct track when we do joint business. It is always long-term cooperation," he said. However, while doing this, it is important to avoid mediation in the cases when it is rational and possible, Snopkov said. "There are certain items whose supplies are impossible to be conducted directly from manufacturers, because many corporate practices by manufacturers do not envisage direct work, only through mediation. But there's a difference between one mediator and five," he said. As reported, Snopkov, former deputy head of the presidential administration, was appointed Belarusian ambassador to China on January 30. Lukashenko said in commenting on his appointment that "we have no other choice." Nikolai Gennadiyevhich has excellent relations with the leadership of the People's Republic of China. Everyone knows him, starting from Xi Jinping to officials at the Foreign Ministry," Lukashenko said. He also said he expects "a true breakthrough" in relations with China. mg jk kl iz (Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru) /Interfax/ Subscription You can access a demo version of, receive more information about or subscribe to Interfax publications by filling in and returning the form below. We also have dozens of reports in the Russian language, please indicate if you are interested. Title:

----- select ----- Mr. Mrs. Ms. Miss



Phone:





E-mail:





First name:





Company:





Country:

----- select ----- Abkhazia Afghanistan Albania Algeria Andorra Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Asia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Hawaiian Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakstan Kenya Kirghizia Kiribati Korea Kuwait Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Scotland Senegal Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Tahiti Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Bahamas The Gambia Tibet Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States of America Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands Western Sahara Yemen Yugoslavia Zambia Zimbabwe Last name:





Division:





City:

Products:

Central Asia & Caucasus Business Weekly

Central Asia General Newswire

Global Gas Analytics

Interfax Via Bloomberg Terminal

Kazakhstan General Newswire

Kazakhstan Mining Weekly

Kazakhstan Oil & Gas Weekly

Natural Gas Daily

Russia & CIS Announcements

Russia & CIS Banking and Finance Weekly

Russia & CIS Business and Financial Daily

Russia & CIS Business and Financial Newswire

Russia & CIS Business and Investment Weekly

Russia & CIS Business Law Weekly

Russia & CIS Business news

Russia & CIS Defense Industry Weekly

Russia & CIS Diplomatic Panorama

Russia & CIS Energy Daily

Russia & CIS Energy Newswire

Russia & CIS Events Calendar

Russia & CIS Food and Agriculture Weekly

Russia & CIS General Newswire

Russia & CIS Headline News

Russia & CIS Insurance Weekly

Russia & CIS IT and Telecom Weekly

Russia & CIS Metals and Mining Weekly

Russia & CIS Military Daily

Russia & CIS Military Newswire

Russia & CIS Military Weekly

Russia & CIS Oil and Gas Weekly

Russia & CIS Presidential Bulletin

Russia & CIS Statistics Weekly

Russia Health & Pharmaceuticals

Russia Market Roundup

Russia Press Review

Ukraine Business Daily

Ukraine Business Weekly

Ukraine General Newswire

Please enter the digits from picture in the box below:

February 28, 2020 Belarus to keep oil refinery throughputs at 1 mln tonnes in March - dep PM Putin, Erdogan discuss Idlib over phone - Lavrov (Part 3) Russian diagnosed with coronavirus in Azerbaijan (Part 2) Delegates to Russian Athletics Federation conference elect Yurchenko its president Outbreak of violence in Idlib won't disrupt Astana process - Lavrov NATO shouldn't intervene in situation in Idlib - Luxembourgish FM Russian diagnosed with coronavirus in Azerbaijan MICEX and RTS Indexes at 14:00 MSK Syrian events hardly fall under North Atlantic Treaty's collective defense article - Lavrov Tatneft to hold AGM on June 26 Putin, Erdogan agree to consider possibility of holding summit meeting soon - Kremlin AZERBAIJAN RECORDS 1ST COVID-19 CASE, THIS IS A RUSSIAN CITIZEN COMING FROM IRAN - CORONAVIRUS RESPONSE HEADQUARTERS Russian military ready to continue efforts toward de-escalation in Syria's Idlib - Lavrov Chelyabinsk Tube Rolling Plant's RAS profit plummets 60% to 1.35 bln rubles in 2019 more headlines



Interviews

John Sullivan: President Trump charged me with improving relations between U.S. and Russia .



more New U.S. Ambassador to Russia John Sullivan, who has recently started his mission in Moscow, has given an interview to Interfax in which he speaks about priorities of his work and assesses the prospects of developing bilateral relations. . Gregory Barker: We will be closer to the assets going forward .



more The En+ Group effectively turned a new page in its corporate history in 2019. Now the group has a unique governance scheme for Russia - without a domineering shareholder and a loyal majority on the board of directors. The board chairman, Lord Gregory Barker, is convinced that the changes adopted in the framework of the plan he devised to get the company removed from the U.S. sanctions list will ultimately do the company and its shareholders good, irrespective of the deal with OFAC. Lord Barker told Interfax in an interview about the work of the new En+ board, dividends and long-term strategy. . Laurie Bristow: We want to look for ways to work constructively with Russia .



more Ambassador of the United Kingdom to Russia Laurie Bristow, who is leaving his post, has given an exclusive interview to Interfax in which he speaks about prospects of relations with Russia, arms control, the situation in Syria and surrounding Iran, as well as other topical problems on the international agenda.

more interviews

