Media Contact: Baylor University Media and Public Relations, 254-710-1961

Follow us on Twitter: @BaylorUMedia

NOTE: Baylor University’s Department of Public Safety and Center for Global Engagement continue to monitor the latest information on coronavirus (COVID-19) from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the U.S. Department of State. The latest updates on COVID-19 and any impact to the Baylor University campus and/or University-sponsored travel are available at www.baylor.edu/coronavirus. More information about COVID-19 is available on the CDC website at www.cdc.gov/covid19.

WACO, Texas (Jan. 29, 2020) - On Jan. 27, 2020, The United States Department of State (USDOS) and The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued Level 3 Warnings about travel to China, including Hong Kong and Macau, due to an ongoing outbreak of a respiratory illness caused by a novel (new) coronavirus that can be spread from person to person.

In accordance with global safety and security best practices and USDOS and CDC guidance, Baylor University-sponsored travel to China, Hong Kong and Macau is temporarily postponed until further notice.

All other international travel continues to run as scheduled. Baylor University will continue to monitor the situation in China and throughout the region. In addition, all University-sponsored travel for faculty, staff and students needs to be registered with the Center for Global Engagement. More information about travel registration is available here.

Please review the USDOS travel advisory for China and the CDC website for updates.

Baylor University and the Center for Global Engagement in collaboration with the Baylor Department of Public Safety and USDOS will continue to give updates as necessary.

ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY

Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 18,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions.