Editor: Wei Xuanyi

Women in Pinggu District in Beijing attend a training program to improve their sales through a short-video streaming platform. [bjnews.com.cn]

A group of more than 60 female peach growers in Pinggu District in Beijing at an end-of-year party showed how they have benefited from training programs organized by the Women's Federation of Pinggu District.

These female growers, who are e-commerce lecturers as well, staged various performances, demonstrating their progress in learning and teaching over the past year.

The district's women's federation has organized more than 100 online and offline training courses on e-commerce and new media, benefiting over 4,000 women in the district.

More than 760 of the trainees have opened online stores or started live streaming to promote their businesses, according to an official of the federation.

Wang Dan, head of the lecturers' team, said the party is not a simple convivial gathering but a charity course to boost the sales of local agricultural products through good short videos in the slack winter season. The gathering was broadcast live by participants on a short-video streaming platform.

Among the participants, Fan Ruiping, a villager who demonstrated how to make local snacks, such as steamed stuffed buns, pastries, steamed buns stuffed with sweetened bean paste and sugar-coated haws, on the live-streaming platform, attracted more than 2,000 viewers, the highest among all the live-streaming anchors at the party.

The one-year short-video live-streaming training course has enabled villagers who were born between the 1950s and 1970s to use their mobile phones to promote their sales. In addition to increasing their income, the course also changed their mindset and helped them gain confidence.

Wang Shuhua, 64, did not know how to use the Internet to sell her peaches until last April, when she began to learn how to promote online sales through Moments, WeChat's social function. She sold more than 100 boxes of peaches last summer. Thanks to marketing on the live-streaming platform, more than 600 boxes have been sold this year.

Wang Jing, one of the lecturers, taught the trainees marketing skills and how to use gadgets such as "selfie sticks" after the party.

Yiyunji, an online sales platform for selling local specialities was launched in October 2019 by the female lecturers of the training program. The lecturers dedicated themselves to sharing the quality agricultural products in Pinggu with more people and promote the products to the dining tables nationwide.

(Source: China Women's News/Translated and edited by Women of China)