Australian skincare manufacturer G&M Cosmetics is expanding into the Philippines launching at supermarket giants, Robinsons Supermarket and Rustan’s Supermarket.

The skincare company has a strong focus on natural and Australian Made products such as Australian Creams moisturizing creams; Native Australian; Australian Creams MK II; DR V body washes and lotions and the recently acquired vegan organic brand, PurePapaya.

“Both Robinsons and Rustans have a very large footprint in the retail market and this reach will enable our brands to get to the mass market and to promote behind our G&M philosophy of ‘health & beauty’,” Peter Bosevski, G&M Cosmetics global sales & marketing manager told Inside FMCG.

“We have seen a huge demand coming from Asian consumers and especially from the Southeast Asia region. We know that Philippines’ consumers are now demanding more international skincare products with high quality ingredients and sourced from reputable manufacturers,” G&M Cosmetics founding owner and managing director Zvonko Jordanov said.

The company has upgraded its factory, achieving GMP and ISO 9001 standards and organic certification. The factory currently produces around 150,000 units per shift. This year it’s targeting to increase production by over 60 per cent to around 250,000 units per shift.

“Finding the right partner in [the] Philippines was not easy. It’s taken almost two years. Through our local trade partner P2P Philippines, and with the expert assistance of local government agencies such as Austrade, we have managed to navigate the complex system of doing business in Philippines, and helped open the right channels and doors in regulations, importing, distributing and selling into this important global market,” Bosevski added.

“We believe that Filipino consumer will resonate to our products because our products offer value for money everyday value; unique quality Australian ingredients and that our products can be used all over the body, face, neck, hands legs.”

He said the Filipino consumer is fast becoming educated on Australian ingredients, such as Kakadu Plum which has a high vitamin c content that’s said to promote skin whitening. Bosevski said skin whitening and brightening products are in huge demand in Philippines’ skincare market.

The Australian skincare brand plans to launch in Shopwise Supermarket in March and soon with Mercury Drug Stores and Watsons. The products will also be available on e-commerce platforms shopee.com and Lazada.com

G&M Cosmetics currently exports to China, Hong Kong, US, Taiwan, Thailand, Malaysia, Korea and Singapore.