The week of Feb. 24 is full of interesting dining opportunities, so we wanted to give you enough advance notice to make some tough choices. Two visiting chefs are coming to town to show their chops at local favorite restaurants, and another Nashville star will be holding a special dinner in a secret location. Here’s the skinny that won’t necessarily keep you slim.

The first event will be on Monday, Feb. 24, when the chef from the Charleston 2019 Eater Awards Restaurant of the Year (no small honor in that town!) Kwei Fei will be coming to Bar Otaku for one night only. Chef David Schuttenburg started Kwei Fei as a wildly popular Sichuan Chinese pop-up before moving into his own permanent location on James Island. He’ll be joined in the kitchen by Bar Otaku doyenne Sarah Gavigan to create what should be a memorable menu for the evening. It’s a first come, first served sort of deal starting at 5 p.m., and no advance tickets are necessary. With Schuttenberg’s previous expensive working in different kitchens to prepare his brand of spicy, he should be right at home, so you don’t want to miss this one!

Maneet Chauhan will be playing host to a fellow celebrity chef on Wednesday, Feb. 26, 6 to 9 p.m., when Romy Gill joins her at Chauhan Ale & Masala House for a multi-course vegan meal of Indian cuisine. Gill is an expert on the topic and is in town to celebrate her new cookbook, ZAIKA — Vegan Recipes from India. Chef Gill is known for frequent appearances on British cooking shows as well as for her restaurant Romy’s Kitchen in Bristol, U.K., which she closed in 2019 after six years of operation.

The dinner will feature dishes inspired by Gill’s new cookbook, which will be available for purchase during the event. Tickets are $125 and include the full meal, a welcome cocktail and Chauhan’s house red and white wine. Guests can purchase tickets here plus the option to add on chef Romy’s cookbook for an additional $25.

The busy week of eating will conclude with the latest edition of Henley’s Rabbit Hole Supper Club series. Chef Daniel Gorman takes the opportunity to play around with the menu in these experiential communal dinners, and for this edition they’ll be holding the event in a surprise location somewhere within the confines of the Aertson Hotel. You’ll have to trust them and buy your ticket to find out exactly where the repast will be served, but it’s sure to be entertaining and delicious!

The Rabbit Hole Supper Club Surprise will start off with a cocktail hour with drinks and passed hors d’oeuvres followed by a family-style dinner served by Chef Gorman along with drink pairings curated by Henley’s beverage team. Tickets are $200 and include the full meal, beverage pairings, and a complimentary after-dinner cocktail. Guests can purchase tickets here.





