Great Wall Motors is one of the leading car makers from China. The company is all set to make India debut next week at Auto Expo.

After seeing the success achieved by new entrants like Kia and MG Motor in 2020 – more new players plan to enter the Indian auto industry in 2020. One of them is Great Wall Motors from China. The company is scheduled to unveil its products in the country for the first time at the 2020 Auto Expo. However, ahead of the event, few cars from Great Wall Motor’s have been spotted in Delhi NCR.

The spyshots cover 3 cars from GWM’s Haval brand. While one is totally covered, two of the others can be spotted clearly. Unsurprisingly, both the cars are SUV, which is very well justified considering the SUV frenzy of Indian car buyers.

The orange car in the spyshots is the Haval F5, which is a compact SUV which has been on the production run since 2018. The Chinese-spec version draws power from a 1.5 liter 4-cylinder turbo petrol engine which dishes out 169hp. The engine comes mated to a 7-speed dual clutch transmission. The SUV shares its platform with Havals’ H6 and WEY VV5 (WEY is another sub brand of Great Wall Motors).

The red car in the spyshots is the Haval F7 which is positioned above the Haval F5. It had made its debut at the 2018 Moscow International Motor Show post which deliveries had commenced in China by November 2018. It had made its first global appearance in concept form at the 2017 Auto Shanghai as Haval HB-03. The SUV shares its platform with the WEY VV6 (positioned above the WEY VV5). The F7 shares its engine lineup with the F5, which includes the 1.5 litre turbo petrol and a more powerful 2 litre turbo petrol.

At the 2020 Auto Expo, GWM will unveil the Vision 2025 Concept, which will be a battery electric vehicle. Apart from Vision 2025, GWM will be showcasing multiple products from its global portfolio. Considering the spyshots, we are confident that both F7 and F5 will also be present at the stall.

Talking about GWM, it has a very strong presence in Chinese SUV market. The company has aggressive plans for India and that is the reason it has purchased GM’s old facility near Pune. They will be starting their Indian operations soon with this brownfield facility.