THE TV dad who rewrote history by revealing that the Great Wall of China was actually built to keep rabbits out has discovered fame comes with a price.

Patrick O'Meara, from Melbourne, was a postman for 22 years before deciding to give acting a crack.

Not only was the much-loved Telstra BigPond ad his first appearance on television, it was the first commercial he had ever auditioned for.

Now the humble 45-year-old gets so much attention he doesn't like to go out in public without hiding his newly famous face.

"I don't really like getting recognised all the time, so I tend to wear a cap and sunglasses, but it doesn't help having mates who always want to point out to people at the pub who I am," he said.

"It was hard to get used to at first, a lot of people ask me to say the line and I've had photos taken with loads of people.

"Most people say 'you look a bit different than on the telly'."

Acting was a radical career-change choice for O'Meara, who had previously done some sheet-metal work and driven a cab to take a break from his round as a postie.

"I was at a community centre and I saw this ad on the wall for an acting class and I thought it might be a good way to do something creative and that sort of stuff, to bring me out of myself a bit more," he said.

O'Meara's fumbling attempts to answer his TV son's questions about the Great Wall of China – it was built by "Emperor Nasi Goreng" to "keep the rabbits out" have made their way into the lexicon.

It's even become a running joke with Australian tourists visiting the Great Wall who like to ask local Chinese guides about the emperor's efforts.

The rabbits ad beat Carlton's Big Ad and Flashbeer campaigns in a survey of more than 1400 people conducted for ad agency Singleton Ogilvy & Mather.

BigPond group managing director Justin Milne says the ad was a once-in-a-lifetime phenomenon for a marketer. "People's perception of our brand has increased significantly – it's considered well-liked, clever and capable of surprising people," he said.

BigPond's rate of growth has doubled during the 18 months the campaign has been on air and O'Meara is in several sequels.

"It has changed my life because I've been able to rely on this stuff and I don't miss having to get up and go to work at 6am every day," he said.