DANBURY, Conn. – Vertically integrated manufacturer and retailer Ethan Allen reported fiscal 2020 second-quarter sales of $174.6 million, a decrease of 11.5% compared with the same prior-year period, as its transition to a membership model contributed to a 21.8% decrease in wholesale orders.

Net income of $7.1 million for the three months ended Dec. 31 was off 41.8% from fiscal 2019’s second quarter. Ethan Allen had second-quarter earnings per share of 27 cents compared with 45 cents a year ago.

Along with the transition from a promotional to membership model, the company attributed the consolidated sales drop to a 4.2% decrease in international sales driven by lower sales in China and Canada and consumer caution with discretionary spending.

Wholesale net sales decreased 14.6% in the second quarter to $91.9 million, primarily due to a 45.1% decrease in sales to China and a 24.6% decline in sales to the company’s North American retail network. Partially offsetting these declines was growth in contract sales, which grew 66.9%. The year-over-year increase in contract sales was attributable to continued growth in sales from the GSA contract.

In the retail segment, second-quarter net sales from Ethan Allen operated design centers of $139.1 million were off 12.2% compared with fiscal 2019’s second quarter. There was a 12.3% decrease in net sales in the United States, while net sales from Canadian design centers decreased 11.8%. These decreases were primarily due to the transition to the membership model combined with softer order trends as consumers have been cautious with discretionary spending.

There were 144 company operated design centers at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2020, compared with 146 in the prior year period as Ethan Allen continues to relocate and open new locations while closing older locations.

Through fiscal 2020’s first six months, consolidated sales of $348.5 million were down 9.5% compared with the prior year’s first two quarters, off 14.4% in wholesale and down 9% in the retail segment. Net income through this year’s first two quarters crept up 0.8% to $21.2 million.

Ethan Allen Chairman, President and CEO Farooq Kathwari noted in an earnings release that the company already had predicted that implementation of the Ethan Allen Member Program introduced in October would impact sales and profitability during the initial year, particularly in fiscal 2020’s second and third quarters.

“The Ethan Allen Member Program provides special members-only pricing, free shipping and white glove in-home delivery, complimentary interior design service and, in our U.S. design centers, access to special financing options,” Kathwari said. “We continue to strengthen our product offerings, projection and marketing. In January, we distributed 2.5 million copies of our direct mail magazine and launched a strong national radio program and digital advertising. Our plans for February and March are to continue our strong marketing in various mediums including television, digital, radio and print.”

He added that Ethan Allen’s vertical structure allows the company to continue to offer shareholders regular quarterly dividends and periodic special cash dividends, and to make share repurchases even in a transitional period.

“During the second quarter we paid $5.6 million in cash dividends and repurchased 545,727 shares, representing 2.1% of our outstanding shares,” Kathwari said, noting that on Jan. 13, “the Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization to three million shares, and we plan to continue to strategically repurchase our shares.”

Click here for the full Ethan Allen fiscal 2020 second-quarter release.