MANILA – Welcome the Year of the Metal Rat with these special dining offers.

These are not endorsed by ABS-CBN News.

FOODPANDA NEW YEAR DISCOUNT

Spicy Tuna Maki at Ooma, which can be ordered at foodpanda. Handout

This delivery app is kicking off the year with a 20% discount on over 1,000 restaurants in its key cities.

This January, customers can order meals at foodpanda for less – whether it be American (8Cuts, McDonald’s, Nono’s), Italian (Big Guys Pizza), Japanese (Ooma, 102 Izakaya), or Filipino (Manam, Adobo Connection) – with its “jansafoodpanda” promo.

“We believe these amazing deals will give our food-loving customers a reason to celebrate the new year more for the whole month of January,” said Camille Hadjeri, international markets manager for foodpanda Philippines.

Customers can also use the code FREEJAN for free delivery on top of the 20% discount, or the code NEWME for additional 20% when using foodpanda’s pick-up feature.

CHEF’S TASTING MENU AT FLAME

Five Spice Duck Leg Confit at Flame. Handout

Discovery Primea’s executive chef, Luis Chikiamco, creates a culinary journey at Flame Restaurant to welcome the Year of the Metal Rat.

On January 24 and 25, his tasting menu will be available for dinner at P2,500++ per person.

The meal begins with a Kung Pao Shrimp Salad with mandarin oranges and cashew nuts, followed by Pan-Seared Foie Gras with ginger-rice soubise, three-vinegar reduction, smoked duck breast, and sous-vide soft egg.

Savor the third course made of tender Lemongrass-Steamed Chilean Sea Bass with XO risotto, Asian gremolata, and scallions, followed with a Flame favorite – the Five Spice Duck Leg Confit with take-out Dan Dan noodles, minced pork, sesame paste, peanuts, and bok choy.

End this satisfying meal with an Almond Panna Cotta with dragon fruit salad, sesame croquant, and lychee sorbet.

Located at the 16th floor of Discovery Primea, Flame offers guests a wide selection of playful yet sophisticated modern Asian cuisine.

LUCKY SET MENUS AT LUNG HIN

Baked Slipper Lobster at Lung Hin, which is part of the restaurant’s Good Fortune set menu. Handout

The award-winning Cantonese restaurant of Marco Polo Ortigas Manila is ushering in the Year of the Metal Rat with an extravagant Chinese feast.

Executive chef Ken Leung and his team have created set menus that fit dining parties of five or 10 persons which are available from January 24 to February 3.

The Good Wealth set menu features Lung Hin’s signature Sauteed Tiger Prawns with Homemade Chili Sauce, Steamed Fresh Garoupa with Superior Soya Sauce, and Crispy Roasted Baby Duck. On the other hand, the Good Fortune set menu includes Baked Slipper Lobster in Supreme Stock, Braised South African Abalone with Japanese Oysters and Vegetables, and Signature Salt-Baked Chicken.

Those who will be at the hotel on January 25 can join a special blessing ceremony led by feng shui expert Hanz Cua, followed by the traditional lion and dragon dance.

Meanwhile, traditional glutinous rice cakes or nian gao are also available for purchase at Lung Hin ahead of the Lunar New Year. Variants include the Double Gold Bar Nian Gao in brown sugar flavor (P1,888 per box), the Single Round Nian Gao in red dates sugar flavor (P798 per box), and Large Round Nian Gao in pandan, coconut, or red dates sugar flavors (P1,388 per box). All prices are subject to relevant taxes.

AUSPICIOUS EATS AT XIN TIAN DI

The specialty Chinese restaurant of Crowne Plaza Manila Galleria has prepared a medley of dishes to welcome the Year of the Metal Rat.

Diners at Xin Tian Di can have the Wealthy Menu (starts at P12,888++ for a group of four), which includes Fortune Yu Sheng or a combination of cold cuts; choice of Dried Scallop, Fish Maw, and Shredded Abalone Soup or Double-Boiled Conch Meat, Chicken, and Coconut with Conpoy Soup; Deep Fried Crispy Sea Bass Fillet with Teriyaki Dressing; Steamed King Scallop with Taosi; Braised E-fu Noodle with Crabmeat and Assorted Seafood with Egg White; Fried Organic Rice with Veal and Asparagus in Abalone Sauce; Roasted Duck with Plum Sauce; Pan-fried Sweet Glutinous Rice Cake; and Sweet Almond Ginger Tea.

The Fortune Menu (starts at P26,888++ for a group of 10), on the other hand, has the same appetizer, soup, and dessert plus Roasted Peking Duck Two-way, Stir-fried Tiger Prawn with Superior Soup and Garlic, Stewed Home-style Pork Knuckle “Patatim Style,” Wok-fried Norway Salmon Fillet with Golden Garlic and Salted Egg, Wok-fried Minced Duck in Lettuce, Braised E-fu Noodle with Crab Meat and Assorted Seafood with Egg White, and Fried Organic Rice with Veal and Asparagus in Abalone Sauce.

Xin Tian Di also offers a special round Tikoy at P1,088++ per piece, available in original, ube, and pandan flavors.

Offers are available until January 31.

DIM SUM DEMOS AND MORE AT CORNICHE

Diamond Hotel Philippines’ Corniche is alternately holding live dim sum making and noodle pulling demonstrations from January 20 to 26 in celebration of Chinese New Year.

Within the same period, guests can also enjoy Chinese Chef Yang Yong’s specialties at Corniche for P3,180 nett per person. For a minimum spend of P5,000 at the buffet, diners get to pick a prize at the hotel’s prosperity tree for a chance to win gift certificates and other premium items.



On January 25, the hotel will have a dragon and lion dance at the lobby, followed by live Chinese instrumental music. Free 10-minute feng shui consultations with expert Angel Macalino are also available on this day for a minimum spend of P5,000 at the Corniche lunch buffet. Diners will also be given an “ang pau” containing vouchers for up to 40% off at the restaurant on their next visit.

Aside from the buffet, Corniche is also offering Chinese lauriat set menus at the restaurant’s exclusive dining area, as well as an extensive choice of steamed, baked, and fried items at the Weekend Dim Sum Delights at P999 nett per person.

CHINESE FEAST AT CRIMSON HOTEL

Sunday brunch at Café Eight. Handout

Crimson Hotel Filinvest City’s Café Eight is serving a Chinese dinner buffet from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. until January 25.

For P2,150 net, diners get to enjoy dishes such as Pickled Black Fungus, Shanghai Smoked Fish, Peking Duck, Hainanese Chicken, dim sum, and desserts, as well as unlimited juices, sodas, local beers, and wines.

Get in the spirit of Chinese New Year with the Deck Bar’s auspicious “Huat’s up? Pool Party” on January 24. The hotel will light up the guests’ Friday night with overflowing Engkanto craft beer and red cocktails, live DJ, bar games, and snacks to give them a prosperous vibe. The rate per person is P799 net, inclusive of entrance fee and unlimited craft beer and red cocktails.

On January 26, enjoy a lavish Sunday brunch at Café Eight with dishes such as Tofu with Century Egg and Pork Floss, Buddha Soup, Xiao Long Bao, Suckling Pig, Tikoy, Tangyuan, and more. Rate is at P2,100 net inclusive of unlimited juices, sodas, local beers, and wines.

Meanwhile, the Lobby Lounge has a Chinese New Year-themed afternoon tea set with savory and sweet portions such as Duck Spring Roll, Shrimp Toast, Buchi, Oolong Crème Brulee, Pork Buns, and Salted Egg Yolk Cookies. This is available from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. until January 31.

BOUNTIFUL DISHES AT CITY OF DREAMS MANILA

Crystal Dragon’s Happiness Menu. Handout

The restaurants of City of Dreams Manila are serving up bountiful dishes to ring in the Year of the Metal Rat.

Crystal Dragon has Chinese New Year ala carte and set menus, available for lunch and dinner until January 31. Diners can toss to a prosperous Lunar New Year with Prosperity Abalone Yu Sheng, a lavish salad of abalone, chopped peanuts, deep-fried flour crisps, shredded radish and ginger, and pomelo among others, which is then finished with oil and plum sauce.

To complete the hearty feast, Crystal Dragon has crafted two set menus: the seven-course Happiness Menu (P3,080++) and the eight-course Magnificent Menu (P5,680++), both of which start with the Prosperity Abalone Yu Sheng and cater to four to six persons.

The Happiness Menu consists of Braised Sea Treasure Broth with Fish Maw; Deep-fried Crab Claws and Minced Shrimp Kataifi; Steamed Dried Oyster Stuffed in Bean Curd Skin with Sea Cucumber and Black Moss; Sautéed Celery, Lotus Roots, Lily Bulbs and Macadamia Nuts; Wok-fried Nian Gao and Minced Pork with XO Sauce; and Chilled Peach Jelly, Bird Nest and Shredded Coconut.

The Magnificent Menu, on the other hand, offers Double-boiled Black Chicken Soup with Chinese Ham, Conpoy, Maca, and Fish Maw; Steamed Cod Fish Fillet with Black Truffle Sauce; Wok-fried Tiger Prawn with Creamy Butter Lemon Sauce; Braised Sea Cucumber, Flower Mushroom, Abalone and Brocolli; Sauteed Celery, Lotus Root, Scallops and Lily Bulbs; Wok-fried Fragrant Rice with Dried Scallops and Sea Urchin Sauce; and ends with a serving of Deep-fried Trio Layer of Tikoy with Osmanthus Sauce.

Meanwhile, Nobu Manila has celebratory dishes infused with Japanese-Peruvian flavors to toast the lunar new year. Among these are the Sushi and Sashimi Platter (P3,500++) of fresh salmon, tuna, white fish, ebi, toro, wagyu, ikura, uni, and oyster; the Lapu Lapu served New Style in Black Bean Sauce (P4,000++) with yuzu soy, chives, ginger, garlic and sesame seeds; and the Kobe Platter (P6,000++), which consists of a filling medley of gyoza, tacos, sliders and croquettes.

Nobu Manila’s Chinese New Year offerings are available for the whole month of January at dinner, from 6 p.m. until 8 p.m. on Monday to Thursday and until 9 p.m. on Friday to Sunday.