Work has started on a £45m project to build two new budget hotels at Manchester Airport.

A 280-bed Holiday Inn and a 262-bed Ibis Budget are set to open at the beginning of 2021, joining the likes of Crown Plaza and Radisson Blu.

The project forms part of Airport City's £1bn development, set to bring offices, hotel district, manufacturing, logistics facilities and retail space.

Construction of a new £6m pedestrian and cycle bridge over the M56 motorway began in October 2019.

The bridge will give direct access to pedestrians and cyclists travelling to the airport from Wythenshawe.

Beijing Construction Engineering Group International has been awarded the multi-million pound contract.

The Holiday Inn will have twin, family, executive and accessible rooms across six floors.

The sixth floor will have roof terrace for guests, overlooking the airfield.

A seventh floor will feature a canopied terrace and crew lounge, which will look north over Airport City Manchester towards Manchester city centre.

The Ibis Budget Hotel will offer free WiFi and a breakfast buffet.

It will have a restaurant on the ground floor.

Both hotels will be next to the airport train and tram station.

A planning application was submitted just before Christmas for a nine-storey, 412 bedroom hotel and restaurant under the TRIBE brand.

The hotel is part of the Accor Group, whose other brands include Mercure, Sofitel and Novotel.

Dongwen Yu, Lead Director, BCEGI, said: "We are delighted to be appointed as the contractor to deliver these two new hotels at Airport City Manchester.

"Alongside The Hut Group and the new pedestrian bridge construction, both hotels reinforce the fact momentum at Airport City is building.

(Image: Airport City)

Jonathan Haigh, managing director of MAG Property and Airport City Manchester Development Management Leader , said: "The start of work on site for our Holiday Inn and Ibis Hotels is another major milestone for the Airport City Manchester scheme.

"Responding primarily to the Airport's sustained growth in passenger numbers and its £1bn transformation programme to facilitate further growth and an enhanced customer experience, the new hotels will provide much needed accommodation to meet growing demand.

"We are also delighted with the submission of a further planning application for a TRIBE hotel, which again demonstrates the calibre of operator interest in Airport City Manchester as our vision continues to progress into a reality.

"These hotels, under globally recognised leading brands, will bring a range of additional facilities and amenities to the airport campus, as well as providing employment opportunities for local people both during the construction stage and once operational."

Follow us on Twitter and Facebook for the latest news. We are also on Instagram .

If you are on the go, the M.E.N. app helps bring you closer to the latest news where you live. Available on iPhone and Android , the app can be tailor-made to bring you the latest on what matters to you.

Breaking news, the latest on your football club, the pick of the week’s events and the latest travel - you can tailor the app to suit you.

Our push notifications help highlight the biggest stories to you first.