Pushing for votes on last Sunday before polls

Political parties were all out on campaign trail around Taiwan in a last-ditch scramble for votes on the final Sunday before the Jan. 11 presidential and legislative elections.

The three presidential candidates resumed campaign activities Sunday following a three-day break after eight armed forces members, including Chief of the General Staff Shen Yi-ming (沈一鳴), were killed in a helicopter crash Thursday.

President Tsai Ing-wen of the Democratic Progressive Party, who is running for re-election, traveled to Nantou, Yunlin, Tainan, Taoyuan and New Taipei to drum up voter support.

Meanwhile, the Kuomintang's Han Kuo-yu went to Taoyuan, New Taipei and Taipei, while James Soong of the People First Party focused his efforts on Taichung, Changhua.

President Tsai Ing-wen (second left) of the Democratic Progressive Party, who is running for re-election, is presented with a pot of plant as a token of luck and best wishes during a visit to a flower center in Puli, Nantou County.

Kuomintang presidential candidate Han Kuo-yu (center) addresses a rally in Taoyuan.

People First Party presidential candidate James Soong (left) shows Chinese New Year calligraphy he wrote for a charity sale in Taichung.

Tsai Ing-wen (center) and DPP legislative candidate Tsai Pei-hui (right) pray at a temple in Nantou's Puli.

Kuomintang (KMT) presidential candidate Han Kuo-yu (left) addresses supporters in front of the Shilin Hulu Temple in Taipei alongside KMT legislative candidate Sun Ta-chien (right).

Taiwan's EBC Financial News Channel airs an interview with People First Party presidential candidate James Soong (left) and Hon Hai Precision Co. chief Terry Gou (right). Photo courtesy of the People First Party.

James Soong (second left) stumps for independent legislative candidate Huang Yu-fen (left) in Changhua in the company of PFP legislator-at-large candidates Tsai Chin-yu (second right) and Amanda Liu (right).

President Tsai Ing-wen (center) stumps for Democratic Progressive Party legislative candidate Su Chih-fen (second row, left) in Yunlin County.

President Tsai Ing-wen (4th from front right) her running mate Lai Ching-te (5th from front right) chant "Victory" in a campaign rally in Tainan

Han Kuo-yu's supporter in Taipei

Tsai Ing-wen's supporters in Tainan.

New Power Party Chairman Hsu Yung-ming (in white shirt) leads party members to hold a running event in Keelung City Sunday as part of efforts to soliciting votes in the Jan. 11 legislative elections.

James Soong (center) and legislative candidates Lai Chien-hao and Wu Kuang-chung (right) of the People First Party in Taichung.

Han Kuo-yu's motorcade in New Taipei's Zhonghe District.

Han Kuo-yu (center) at the KMT rally in New Taipei's Banqiao District.

KMT supporters gather in the party's campaign rally in New Taipei's Banqiao District.

DPP's campaign rally in New Taipei's Xinzhuang District

A supporter wearing a headband printed with a cartoon Tsai Ing-wen.

Tsai Ing-wen (center) and her running mate Lai Ching-te (left) at the DPP rally in New Taipei's Xinzhuang District.