Forty years ago, Reston Community Center opened its doors to the people of still-young Reston.

During that time, Reston has grown from a community of about 26,000 to nearly four times that number — and growing — as it welcomes transit-oriented development with Metro’s Silver Line.

How should RCC grow along with the community to best serve Reston in the 2020s and beyond? RCC formally asked residents that in 2019, when it contracted the University of Virginia’s Center for Survey Research to conduct a comprehensive community survey.

Restonians can learn the initial results of that survey, as well as participate in discussions about RCC’s future priorities at a special event, RCC: Past and Future, on Monday, February 10 at 6:30 p.m. at RCC Hunters Woods.

The evening will include hospitality and community conversation for residents and employees of Small District 5 (Reston). The agenda of this special annual joint Community Relations and Program/Policy Committees meeting includes a screening of an entertaining short film about RCC’s first 40 years; the presentation on the results of the 2019 RCC Community Survey; and facilitated discussion on four important RCC strategic planning pillars (Facilities, Community Building, Programs and Communications).

RCC convenes the Community Relations and Program/Policy committees jointly each February to hear from its stakeholders and partners. This year will be a special gathering not just for the anniversary celebration, but so RCC’s Board of Governors and staff members can gather feedback as the agency looks toward 2021, when the next five-year strategic plan will be adopted.

“We conclude our present five-year strategic plan in 2021,” said Beverly Cosham, RCC Board of Governors Chair. “Our approach typically overlaps the final year of one strategic plan with the engagement process to find out what is on our community’s minds that will shape the next one. This year, we look back to acknowledge the tremendous impact of Reston creating its community center in the image of the community and what that meant for the past 40 years.”

RCC Executive Director Leila Gordon says this is a crucial time in Reston — and RCC’s — growth. She is hoping for significant community turnout in order to hear and record opinions from a broad cross-section of Reston.

“We know that people want to discuss a possible performing arts venue; development of an online community calendar; partner challenges and other specific issues,” said Gordon. “This event is an opportunity to share views on those topics.”

Advance registration is requested. RCC will be providing translation support (Chinese, Arabic, Spanish and Russian) and offering childcare for busy families with children ages 6 to 12. Please RSVP at [email protected].

Those who want to take advantage of the childcare option must complete a registration form for their children.

The registration process will enable RCC to keep participants informed about the planning progress through the next several months. Interested patrons with questions can also direct them to [email protected].