CANTON -- A survey for the Canton Brownfield Opportunity Area (BOA) Step 2 study is closing soon.

The survey will accept responses through Friday Jan. 31 and is available through this link: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CantonBOA.

“The response to the survey has been very gratifying so far, and we want to make sure that people who have been putting off responding have ample opportunity to do so,” said Leigh Rodriguez, Canton’s Director of Economic Development. “We hope even more people will take a few minutes to provide their input.”

The survey seeks opinions and input on priorities for redevelopment and economic revitalization of the BOA which includes Canton’s historic downtown and Grasse River corridor.

The survey also seeks opinions about traffic and traffic safety in the Village as well as activities survey respondents enjoy on the river corridor and in the Village’s parks.

Open-ended questions invite input on what respondents like most and would most like to change about the area inside the BOA boundary.

The survey has been open for responses since early December; 194 responses have been received so far.

The Village and Town of Canton Economic Development Committee sponsors the BOA study.

The New York State BOA Program is designed to help communities complete revitalization plans and implementation strategies for areas affected by the presence of contaminated and potentially contaminated sites and vacant and abandoned sites, and to complete environmental studies of strategic brownfield sites.

The Pre-Nomination Step 1 study for the Brownfield Opportunity Area was completed in 2011. The Step 2 study carries the analysis in that plan forward and will include economic and market trends analyses, as well as identification and reuse potentials for strategic sites in the BOA that could be catalysts for revitalization.

The survey is one element of a broad public input program for the BOA. Public workshops, steering committee meetings and interactive site tours as well as participation in community events such as the farmers market and Remington Festival of the Arts are also part of the program.

Additional information about upcoming events will be posted on the study Facebook page: Village of Canton Brownfield Opportunity Area.

For more information and to receive a printed copy of the survey, contact Leigh Rodriguez, Village and Town of Canton Director of Economic Development by phone at 315-386-2871 ext. 5 and email at [email protected].

This document was prepared for the Village and Town of Canton and the New York State Department of State with state funds provided through the Brownfield Opportunity Areas Program.