—The Allen Institute, a nonprofit research organization founded by the late Seattle billionaire philanthropist and Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen, announced three new additions to its board:

• Former Washington State Gov. Gary Locke. In addition to serving two terms as governor, Locke was a U.S. ambassador to China and secretary of commerce. He is currently chairman of Locke Global Strategies, a consulting group, and a senior advisor and consultant for law firm Davis Wright Tremaine specializing in doing business in China and the U.S.

• Chairman of the Pacific Northwest Region for JPMorgan Chase Phyllis Campbell. Campbell was previously president and CEO of The Seattle Foundation, a 73-year-old philanthropic organization with more than $1 billion in assets. She is currently the chair of the US-Japan Council.

• Margaret Anderson, managing director with Deloitte Consulting LLP. At Deloitte, Anderson focuses on the outcomes and efficiencies in the federal health, nonprofit, and life sciences sectors. She previously worked in public health including at the Milken Institute and the American Public Health Association.

“We are thrilled to have the world-renowned expertise and leadership that our three new members bring to our Board of Directors,” Allan Jones, Ph.D., president and CEO of the Allen Institute, said in a statement. “The expansion of our board, and the addition of their stewardship and guidance, will be invaluable as we continue to tackle hard problems in bioscience to advance human health.”

— Starbucks named Brady Brewer its new chief marketing officer, replacing Matthew Ryan. Brewer has worked at Starbucks for more than 18 years and most recently served as SVP of digital customer experience. Prior to Starbucks, he was a product manager at aQuantive and Visio Corporation, both of which were acquired by Microsoft. He will report directly to COO Rosalind “Roz” Brewer; the two are not related.

— Axon, maker of police body cameras, hired Gabrielle Mellon as director of talent acquisition. Mellon joins the company from Amazon where she worked on recruiting operations for the tech giant. Prior to Amazon, Mellon spent almost a decade at Microsoft, also in talent acquisition and recruitment.

“Gabrielle brings a wealth of experience from her time at Amazon and Microsoft where she lead technical recruiting teams,” Elizabeth Hart, VP of people operations at Axon, said in a statement. “She has a proven track record of finding top talent, building teams, and driving recruitment innovation — we need the absolute best people to achieve our mission of making the bullet obsolete and protecting life.”

Earlier this week, Axon rolled out police body cameras with live-streaming capability. The Scottsdale, Ariz.-based company currently has 227 employees at its Seattle engineering center and is hiring for an additional 74 people.

— Canadian commercial fusion energy company General Fusion named Greg Twinney its new CFO. Twinney comes from a fellow Canadian startup, Vancouver, B.C.-based Hootsuite, a social media management platform, where he was COO, CFO and interim SVP of global sales. He previously held financial roles at technology companies including Real Matters, Kobo Inc. and Opalis Software. General Fusion counts Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos as a backer.

— Vancouver, B.C.-based investment firm Vistara Capital Partners announced two promotions and two additions to its team. John O’Donoghue and Kathleen Reaume have both been promoted to directors of investments. New to the team are Tracy Zhang, an investment analyst, and Alexander Leung as marketing and communications manager.

Last year, Vistara Capital Partners invested in Bellevue-Wash.-based cloud services startup BitTitan. The firm is currently expanding its team to support a new $115 million fund.

— Commercial real estate brokerage Kidder Mathews announced that longtime Chairman and CEO Jeffrey Lyon will step down as CEO on July 1 and remain chairman of the board. President and COO Bill Frame will take over as CEO and be succeeded in his current role by Regional Brokerage President Brian Hatcher. The Seattle-based brokerage operates across five West Coast states, including in Seattle and Bellevue where the tech industry’s rapid growth has led to a flurry of real estate activity.

—Seattle-based health care provider First Choice Health promoted Heather Ford from account executive to director of employee assistance program (EAP). Ford previously served as an active duty military social worker for almost 10 years including a deployment in Iraq. Positioning itself as an alternative to traditional health insurance, First Choice Health announced an integration with telemedicine startup 98point6 last year.