BBC Two is currently airing Good Omens six months after fans around the world watched it on Amazon Prime Video. The apocalyptic comedy is by authors Terry Pratchett and Neil Gaiman, and is based on their fantasy novel of the same name. Sian Brooke stars in the series as the unknowing mother of the Antichrist (Sam Taylor Buck) - she speaks about her role in an exclusive interview.

The comedy is about the birth of the son of Satan, the Antichrist, and the coming of the end of the world. Sian Brooke plays Diedre Young, the mother of the boy she thinks is her newborn baby. The baby she is handed, however, is actually Adam - the son of Satan who has been switched with her real son. Brooke stars alongside Daniel Mays who plays her husband in the series and she gives birth at a nunnery. READ MORE: Good Omens: What happened to the third baby in the Antichrist swap?

Who is Sian Brooke and what else has she been in?

Sian Brooke played Sherlock's sister Eurus Holmes

READ MORE Sherlock season 5: What happened to Eurus Holmes? Will she return? The British actress has spoken exclusively to Express.co.uk about her role in the series. She said: “It isn’t every day you get to play the unknown mother of the Antichrist, it’s quite unique. “What I take away from it is it was brilliantly bonkers. “I loved the whole thing and I loved being able to work with the other cast members.”

What has Sian Brooke starred in?

David Tennant and Michael Sheen in Good Omens

She particularly enjoyed working with Danny Mays, her onscreen husband, as their friendship goes way back. Sian said: “We are friends of old and it was great to be able to play someone who was extreme in their part. “It’s not every day you have to give birth with a load of satanic nuns around you, to be able to bring the book to life was brilliant. “Danny was in the year above me at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, we did our first play together many years ago. DON'T MISS... Deadwater Fell: Did Tom kill his family? The unanswered questions [FAN DISCUSSION]

Next In Fashion Netflix release: When does it start? How many episodes [VIDEO]

Vikings season 6: Will Ubbe find Floki in Iceland? [VIDEO]

Sian Brooke is in Good Omens on BBC Two

“Funnily enough we did remain friends but we never worked together, it was a great reunion. “It was easy [playing his wife] because we know each other and it was good to be able to have a comic scene together.” Sian Brooke is also known for playing Eurus Holmes, Sherlock Holmes’ sister in the Sherlock TV series. Her on-screen brother, Benedict Cumberbatch, also stars in Good Omens as the voice of satan.

Trending