Area towns, including Randolph and Stoughton, are planning Martin Luther King Jr. Day celebrations.

Randolph, for one, embraces its place as one of the most diverse communities in the Commonwealth.

"By truly embracing diversity and inclusivity in the community, Randolph has the potential of becoming a model community of diversity at its best," stated MLK Day Committee member Katrina Huff-Larmond, also a Randolph Town Council member.

The Town of Randolph will partner with Randolph Public Schools to host, "Looking Back, Marching Forward," a program to honor Dr. Martin L. King Jr., from 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. at Randolph High School, 70 Memorial Parkway.

The program will recognize the work around Civil Rights and Women's Rights by including the 100th anniversary of the Women's Suffrage Movement. Explore the Women's Suffrage Gallery, add your voice to a Dialogue on Civil Rights, and send letters to our servicemen and women. Fredie Kay, founder and president of the Massachusetts Suffrage Coalition, will speak.



A gallery will portray a large panel of prominent suffragists and their contributions to the movement, proctored by Kay and a student.

And it's to the younger generation that Huff-Larmond hopes to reach.

"The younger generation seems far removed from the civil rights movement," she said "It's important for them to understand how the movement has benefitted them today.

"This year's Dr. King Jr. event is an experience, not a program - involving a Virtual Reality trip to the Selma Bridge, hearing Dr King Jr.’s speech in different languages and opportunities to engage with elders who will share their experiences during the Civil Rights Era."



Huff-Larmond, on the MLK Committee with Becky Robateau and Christine Tangishaka, used a quote by King to emphasize her point:



"Our goal is to create a beloved community, and this will require a qualitative change in our souls as well as a quantitative change in our lives."



RSVP to FCR@randolph.k12.ma.us or call 781-96-6247 by Jan. 16.

Stoughton

The Stoughton Clergy Association, with the Stoughton Diversity and Incusion Organization, will hold Celebration of the Life and Work of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. with several events Monday, Jan. 20.

The following is the schedule:

10:30 a.m.: Interfaith Church Service, Immaculate Conception Church.

:30 a.m.: Peace Procession (weather permitting) to Stoughton High School.

Noon: MLK Jr. Community Celebration, Stoughton High School (Adams Street entrance).

Bring canned good or other non-perishable items to the church of high school for donation to the school pantries.

For more information, visit Facebook at https://tinyurl.com/yx7gu3g5, or email StoughtonDiversity@gmail.com.