In an effort to further engage Chinese luxury consumers, Burberry is planning to take its fall/winter 2020 collection to Shanghai in April, the British fashion powerhouse announced on Friday.

Although the new collection will first be presented in London in February during London Fashion Week, the Shanghai show will include new looks designed specifically for the event that will sell exclusively in the market, Burberry said.

“The show is the latest in a series of exciting events we have planned this year in China, one of our most important markets, as we set out on the next phase of our transformation,” Burberry’s CEO Marco Gobbetti said in a statement.

Driving engagement and inspiring luxury consumers in China—the fastest-growing market for the brand—is a key focus for Burberry in 2020, the company said.

In 2018, Burberry’s sales in China’s mainland increased 20%, compared to a mere 5% and 1% for the Americas and Europe, respectively. The company’s preliminary report for the third quarter of 2019 shows sales in China continued to grow in the mid-teens year-over-year.

Globally, Chinese spending at home and abroad accounts for one-third of the luxury industry, according to reports.

More luxury consumers are expected to shop domestically, in part due to the weakening Chinese currency and the government’s lowering of import taxes on luxury goods.

In response, other luxury brands are also expanding their physical presence in China.

For example, Kering Group announced late last year that it will add 14 stores for five of its brands across six second-tier cities, including Shenyang, Dalian, Kunming, and Wuhan. The Paris-based luxury conglomerate owns 12 brands, including Balenciaga, Bottega Veneta, Gucci, and Saint Laurent.

READ MORE: Luxury Fashion Brands From Burberry to Kering Make Push for Sustainability

Earlier this month, Burberry launched its Chinese New Year marketing campaign and special products, starring the brand’s Chinese ambassador Zhou Dongyu alongside models He Cong and Liang Jiyuan. The vivid red collection features sports-influenced pieces, and symbols of the Year of Rat.

The company is also planning to open a so-called “social retail store” in Shenzhen in the first half of 2020 in partnership with the Chinese tech giant Tencent, which owns the most popular Chinese social media platform WeChat. The store will enable mobile-savvy luxury consumers to shop, interact, and connect in the physical store.

Shenzhen is the neighboring city to Hong Kong, where Burberry saw its sales decline by double digits in the first three quarters of 2019. Burberry currently operates 61 stores across China.