The European Union intends to seriously develop Artificial Intelligence (AI). Investment in this industry began a year and a half ago when the European Commission took the first big step towards technological change. And this is when the USA and China have been engaged in artificial intelligence for 5 years. The EU has decided to keep up with the leaders, or even overtake them.

Spring 2018: The Foundation Has Been Laid

In April 2018, the European Commission decided to allocate 1.5 billion euros to the Horizon 2020 research and innovation program. This program was launched in 2014 and achieved success in the development and implementation of new technologies. Artificial intelligence has become another promising direction, that Horizon is obliged to pursue.

The Commission planned to make an investment not in the only tranche, but to distribute it between 2018 and 2020. The European Fund for Strategic Investments, which promised to raise additional 500 million euros during this period, has joined this initiative.

Mariya Gabriel, European Commissioner for Digital Economy, said that the EU member states should be ready to bear costs for the technology development. Allocated funds will be insufficient for a serious technological breakthrough. She also stressed that it is necessary to develop ethical principles and improve the legal framework for artificial intelligence.

End of 2018: Interim Result

In December 2018, the European Commission agreed with EU member states a plan for the AI development and application. A new goal is to raise 20 billion euros by the end of 2020, not only in the form of state, but also private investment.

Andrus Ansip, European Commissioner for Digital Single Market, said that the collaboration will lead to the unification of data, skills development, job growth, and further investment, as well as the strengthening of confidence in artificial intelligence. In his opinion, this is not the application field, but one that shapes the future.

The plan envisages not only the active participation of EU member states but also the involvement of Norway and Switzerland in cooperation. To this end, the CLAIRE scientific association was established in June, which included scientists from 20 EU countries, Norway, Switzerland, and even Israel.

Autumn 2019: Blockchain Was Added to AI

In November 2019, the same European Commission, as well as the European Investment Fund jointly created a new fund, which will attract investments in the amount of 400 million euros at the first stage. They have invested 100 million there so far, and the remaining 300 million are going to be attracted using the banking institutions, venture capital investors, and a corporate sector.

The fund will help European companies and startups engaged in artificial intelligence and blockchain. If the first phase is successful, the second stage (presumably by the end of 2020) will increase the amount of investments to 1 billion euros. In 2021, the EC and EIF are planning to attract another 1 billion through the InvestEU Programme.