Member of Parliament (MP) for Aljunied Group Representation Constituency (GRC), Sylvia Lim and her party has been gearing up for the next general election and carrying out regular greet-and-meet sessions with the local residents in her constituency.

In a Facebook post by Aljunied GRC on Wednesday (15 Jan), Ms Lim and Worker’s Party (WP) Non-Constituency MP Leon Perera had attended the “Haus Park came to life” that held last month (11 Dec) at park of Haus, which is the new estate.

Aljunied GRC said that the residents of Haus came in congregations to greet and meet Ms Lim and Mr Perera.

Said in the post, Aljunied GRC who praised the neighbourhood also expressed their intention to meet the residents again.

“Although the estate was relatively new, the neighborhood was closely knitted. We hope to be back soon. Thanks for your warm reception,” it said.

Meanwhile Mr Perera took to his Facebook on Thursday (16 Jan), conveyed his gratitude to those who joined the event and said that the conversation with residents was insightful where he gained some suggestions that may raise in Parliament.

“We had some great conversations…I gained a few insights that we may bring to Parliament, to suggest policy changes” he said in his post.

With Chinese New Year approaching, Aljunied GRC also spent hours by paying visit to the residents and friends of grassroots in the constituency through their outreach activities.

The political parties and MPs have began their walkabout and made the door-to-door visits as the general election seems to be in the offing.

This year, the Progress Singapore Party (PSP)’s chief, Dr Tan Cheng Bock has conducted a number of walkabouts at a few places such as West Coast, Geylang Serai visiting and meeting the local residents.

Despite the announcement of the formation of the Electoral Boundary Review Committee (EBRC), members of the Workers’ Party and candidates still continued walking the ground and meeting Singaporeans to speak with them.

Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong noted earlier that the next Singapore’s general election will be held before April 2021.