He is reprising his role as Dr Ian Malcolm for the third Jurassic World installment, as well as hosting his very own docu-series on the streaming platform Disney+.

But family man Jeff Goldblum proved that there is no schedule too busy for his wife Emilie and their two sons Charlie, four, and River, two, as they walked hand-in-hand in Beverly Hills on Sunday.

The star and his familial gang were joined by his sister Pamela for some Chinese cuisine at acclaimed restaurant Xi'an.

Family night: Jeff Goldblum was spotted out in Beverly Hills on Sunday evening with his wife Emilie and their two sons Charlie (right) and River (left)

Goldblum embodied his 'cool dad' reputation as he stepped out in a fitted leather jacket layered over a white graphic tee and paired with black skinny jeans.

The actor accessorized in typical Goldblum fashion with his notable glasses frames and black velvet fedora.

Wife Emilie Livingston appeared visibly makeup free as she kept a close eye on the couple's two children while making their way back to their vehicle.

The 37-year-old retired gymnast showed off her trim and toned physique in a pair of black fitted trousers styled with a modern puff sleeved sweater.

Fashion forward: Goldblum remained true to his 'cool dad' persona as he stepped out in a leather jacket and black skinny jeans

Bonding: The couple and their two children were joined at the restaurant by Goldblum's sister Pamela.

Her lengthy auburn locks were pulled up into a high ponytail.

The Goldblum boys were taking clear fashion inspiration from their famous father.

Youngest son River donned a familiar black hat, black knit cardigan, and medium wash denim jeans.

While their eldest son Charlie veered on the lighter side in a marled beige sweater and faded grey jeans.

Darling duo: Jeff Goldblum and his wife Emilie attended the star-studded Vanity Fair after party in Beverly Hills on February 9 following the Oscars

Goldblum and his sister Pamela were assigned cargo duty, as they carried the family's leftovers in hand.

Jeff wed his beloved Emilie back in 2014, having previously been married to Thelma and Louise star Geena Davis in 1987 and actress Patricia Gaul in 1980.

The Jurassic Park alum recently enjoyed a more extravagant evening out with his dancer wife during Oscar weekend when they hit up the highly coveted award show's Vanity Fair after party.

After the star-studded party, Goldblum took to his Instagram page to remark on the 'enjoyable' time he had with Emilie.

He will be back: Last year, it was confirmed that Goldblum would, once again, reprise his role as Dr. Ian Malcolm for the third Jurassic World installment

There he i is! Goldbloom's character made a small cameo in Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom back in 2018

'What an enjoyable night at the wonderful @vanityfair Oscar party! A chance to fall even more deeply in love with my wife (if that’s possible!), catch up with old friends, form new connections, and to celebrate our global community,' he captioned.

In conjunction with his thoughtful words, the actor shared a slew of snapshots of the couple from their bout during the evening's famous step-and-repeat.

Last year, it was announced that Jeff would reprise his role as Dr. Ian Malcolm, once more, for the the third Jurassic World installment.

It will be an all-star reunion as original trilogy castmates Laura Dern and Sam Neill join Goldblum in the upcoming feature that will continue to star newbies Chris Pratt and Bryce Dallas Howard.

The World According to Jeff Goldblum: The Disney+ series takes an in-depth look at beloved cultural phenomenons 'through the prism of Jeff Goldblum'

Variety: The show's first season , which aired its season finale on January 24, delved face first into beloved, but divisive topics, such as sneakers, jewelry, tattoos, and ice cream

The 67-year-old actor has been incredibly busy hosting his own gig for Disney's very own streaming platform, Disney+.

The World According to Jeff Goldblum takes an in-depth look at widely known, but unexplored cultural phenomenons 'through the prism of Jeff Goldblum.'

The show's first season, which aired its season finale on January 24, delved face first into beloved, but divisive topics, such as sneakers, jewelry, tattoos, and ice cream.

On January 17, Variety reported that the Goldblum docu-series would be renewed by Disney for a second season consisting of 10 episodes.