







By Jung Hae-myoung







Demand for traditional Korean sweets and cookies is increasing as people are trying to find more unique desserts. The current interest in all things traditional and retro among young Koreans is also contributing to the renewed interest in the products.







According to Gmarket statistics, the sales of traditional Korean snacks from Jan. 7 to 13 increased 108 percent compared to the same period last year.







Purchases of "yugwa," an oil-and-honey pastry, have increased 687 percent year-on-year, while Gmarket sales of yanggaeng, a jelly made of red bean paste, and packets of traditional Korean sweets also increased by 532 percent and 149 percent, respectively.







Sales of traditional snacks yakgwa and jeonbyeong increased by 55 percent and 18 percent, respectively.







The growing popularity can be seen in the sales increase in the domestic dessert market, which jumped by 1.5 trillion won in 2018.







With the domestic dessert market getting bigger, not only the western desserts such as cakes and macaroons but also Korean traditional desserts are grabbing more attention.







Companies selling traditional Korean snacks are focusing on making packaging look simpler and more eye-catching in order to attract young people who put more emphasis on the appearance of products.







CU have created fusion dessert offerings, using Korean traditional rice cake, tteok, to create original products such as a "crispy crunch ice bar" and "tteok roll."







According to CU, sales of products made of tteok have been increasing consistently since 2015, and in 2018 increased by 143.6 percent.







The products are also gaining popularity abroad as traditional Korean sweets are consistently being exported to China, followed by the U.K, Japan, Taiwan and other countries.







SPC Samlip have started selling "honey blossom cookies" in Costco outlets in various states in the U.S. including Seattle, San Francisco, and 250 other malls.







"Nowadays, traditional desserts are not only treats for people to enjoy during the holiday season but also in their everyday lives," the Gmarket representative said. "The products can be purchased from various routes from online shopping malls to dessert cafes."

