Description

GIS – 17 January, 2020: A series of activities to mark the Chinese New Year which will be celebrated on 25 January 2020 will be organised by the Ministry of Arts and Cultural Heritage in collaboration with several key stakeholders. The Minister of Arts and Cultural Heritage, Mr Avinash Teeluck, met the press yesterday in Port Louis to elaborate on the calendar of activities. The Ambassador of the People's Republic of China, Mr Sun Gongyi, and other personalities were present.

Minister Teeluck pointed out that his Ministry is working collaboratively with the Chinese Embassy in Mauritius, the China Cultural Centre, the Municipality of Port Louis and the United Chinese Association as well as other partners to showcase the Chinese culture to the Mauritian population. He also reiterated the commitment and objective of the Ministry of Arts and Cultural Heritage in promoting the diversity of culture that defines the uniqueness of the Mauritian society.

For his part, Ambassador Gongyi expressed satisfaction with regards to the annual celebration of the Chinese New Year and highlighted that it has become a national festival for the country. He thus seized the opportunity to invite all Mauritians to participate in the forthcoming events to mark the 2020 Chinese New Year.

The first activity kick-started yesterday with a Chinese New Year Banquet held at Hua Lien Hall in Trianon.

The other activities are listed as below:

Saturday 18 January 2020 - Opening of the first museum of traditional Chinese customs in Mauritius, the Beijing House Museum in Flic-en-Flac at 15.00 hours;

Thursday 23 January 2020 - Chinese New Year Parade as from 17.30 hours in Port-Louis. The Parade’s itinerary is as follows: starting point Municipality of Port Louis - Government House – to reach Chinatown. The Mauritius Police Band, the National team of majorettes, Chinese volunteer teachers, Chinese associations and enterprises will participate.

Saturday 25 January 2020 – A religious ceremony at Pagode Kwan Tee as from 09 20 hours. A Gala show is also scheduled on the same day as from 16.00 hours at the J&J Auditorium in Phoenix, with a show of the China Oriental performing Arts Group and the China Symphony Orchestra.