Gamuda Land’s Discovery Park opened its doors on Jan 17. The 23-acre park is a new tourism hub filled with thrilling activities located within the RM20 billion Gamuda Cove township in Bandar Gamuda Cove, Selangor. Operating from 10am to 10pm, it is expected to attract 15,000 visitors from Jan 18 to Feb 9, with a series of Chinese New Year activities scheduled for every weekend.

“What differentiates Gamuda Land’s township from others is our mindful planning and to be able to bring all the components together to make the town work. Similarly, we strategically inject fun and excitement into Discovery Park while being mindful of nature and the environment, safety and the surrounding community,” said group director of leasing, retail and malls Herbie Tan in a press release on Jan 17.

The Discovery Park has two recreational zones — Hangout Village and Adventure Park. Attractions include Southeast Asia’s first Aerobar, a beach pool club featuring a 5m diving platform and water pool, a purpose-built rope course, indoor go-karting as well as F&B outlets. Some activities will be fully operational in March and the first phase of the park is expected to be completed by the third quarter of this year.

The motifs-themed Rainbow City — inspired by Taiwan’s Rainbow Village but with a Malaysian twist — is a hangout spot that features 14 motifs, reflecting Malaysia’s Muhibbah culture and Gamuda Cove’s identity, including batik, Kadazan arts and Minangkabau carvings.

“We carefully plan every detail and deliver for the community in advance to activate the home, play, park and shopping place concept. Discovery Park is hence a pivotal catalyst in our placemaking to drive socio-economic growth and complement Gamuda Cove,” Tan said.

The 1,530-acre Gamuda Cove is located along the North-South Expressway Central Link (ELITE), bordered by the 7,600-acre Kuala Langat forest reserve and 1,111-acre Paya Indah Wetlands.

In terms of connectivity, the development is easily accessible via ELITE, the South Klang Valley Expressway, Maju Expressway, Damansara-Puchong Expressway, Shah Alam Expressway and Putrajaya-Cyberjaya Expressway. It is also close to Kuala Lumpur International Airport and klia2.

In the pipeline for Gamuda Cove are tourism-related facilities such as an 18-acre water theme park; hotels; a regional mall; meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions facilities; and offices in the commercial business district.