A Qatar Airways Cargo freighter delivered 91.9 tons of medical supplies donated by the airline on Saturday.

Dong Jun / SHINE

A Qatar Airways cargo freighter delivered 91.9 tons of medical supplies donated by the airline to Shanghai on Saturday.

The shipment includes 435,000 medical masks and 162,996 bottles of hand sanitizer that the airline purchased across the globe.

Another two freighters carrying additional supplies landed in Beijing on Saturday, making up donations from the carrier to 300 tons.

Qatar Airways also offers free air cargo for medical relief aid organized by Chinese embassies and consulates.

“When this crisis began, we knew we had to contribute to support our friends in China,” said Akbar Al Baker, Qatar Airways Group chief executive.

“By working with the Chinese Embassy in Qatar, we hope our combined efforts can help limit the spread of this virus, ease the burden on local medical personnel and provide relief to the impacted communities in China,” he added.

Zhou Jian, Chinese ambassador to Qatar, attended the convoy’s departure and said: “Qatar Airways has opened a green channel for donating and transporting medical supplies to China. This is a channel of love, friendship, solidarity and hope. We are deeply grateful for that.”

The green channel initiative for free air transportation was announced in Qatar on February 7. Qatar Airways was the first international airline to volunteer emergency relief flights.

Shanghai Deputy Secretary General Shang Yuying accepted the donation at the cargo terminal of Pudong International Airport on Saturday afternoon.

On February 2, the airline delivered 100,000 medical-grade N95 respiratory masks and 2,700 medical-grade disposable latex gloves to Shanghai. The supplies have gone to health care professionals at hospitals in central China’s Hubei Province, the heart of the outbreak.

The cargo terminal of the Pudong airport has handled over 1,110 tons of relief materials since the beginning of the outbreak.

Dong Jun / SHINE