The 570 guests who gather Saturday night at RBC Place to mark Chinese New Year are going to party like it’s the Year of the Rat — which, according to the Chinese zodiac, is just beginning.

“It’s all about getting together with family and friends,” said London lawyer Vivian Iron, who is co-chair of the sold-out Dragon Gala celebration.

Iron, aided by about 65 volunteers and the event’s board, will throw the annual party heralded as the biggest night of the social calendar for London’s Chinese community.

“In Chinese culture, the new year is celebrated all month long,” Iron explained. According to the lunar calendar, Year of the Rat festivities began Jan. 25, so it’s not a one-night, one-shot countdown to the new calendar.

And how do you ring in Chinese New Year right?

“A lot of the events are centred around food,” Iron said.

“We have a really special treat for the evening,” she noted, with the appetizer course provided by Fanshawe College’s downtown culinary program.

Those appetizers alone sound like a feast: pork and shrimp dumplings, spring rolls, longevity noodles and steamed bass, plus what’s called ma lai go, a traditional light Chinese cake.

The lucky colours for the event are red and gold, with older participants handing their younger relatives red envelopes stuffed with money to promote prosperity and fellowship.

“The Chinese culture isn’t very known for hugging and kissing,” Iron said, adding that loving deeds — like sharing a feast — are favoured by her family and friends.

By the end of the night, Iron will have changed outfits three times. “I actually have three dresses,” including traditional Chinese attire, said Iron, a business lawyer with Siskinds Law Firm.

Her parents came to Toronto from China before she was born. They moved to the Forest City when a business opportunity opened up: her father opened London’s first Mandarin Restaurant — the chain known for its expansive buffet — at Wellington and Commissioners roads in the mid-1990s.

What does the animal of the year symbolize? Iron says those born during the Year of the Rat are typically clever, quick thinking and resourceful. The rat is the first animal in the astrology chart, so the entire Chinese zodiac begins over again this year.

London’s Chinese community may not be concentrated in one place — there’s no Chinatown or Little China here — Iron believes it’s “pretty huge.”

“I think it’s massive,” she said. “There’s Chinese restaurants all over the place.”

danbrown@postmedia.com

Twitter.com/DanatLFPRess