Looking up through the light well of the double-helix staircases at the new He Art Museum (HEM) in southern China gives a clear clue to its architect Tadao Ando’s inspiration. The monumental stairs, designed to allow visitors to travel from the ground floor to the fourth in opposite directions simultaneously, is capped by an oculus: a physical representation of ancient Chinese cosmology that declares the sky is round and the earth is square. At the HEM, however, the earth is not square but round—a cylindrical volume with a vertically slatted facade. And when it opens its doors in Shunde on March 21, it will be filled with both regional and international treasures.

Looking up in the stairwell of the He Art Museum in China. Photo: Courtesy of HEM

Founded by local billionaire entrepreneur He Jianfeng (who made his fortune in appliances), the privately held museum will be a home for his family’s collection of over 400 works by Chinese and international artists. He’s inventory of indigenous art—particularly paintings by the coastal Guangdong, Guangxi, and Hainan provinces–based Lingnan School, which fused traditional Chinese watercolor techniques with Impressionism in the 19th century—has inspired the museum’s mission to display, illuminate, and celebrate southern Chinese culture. The HEM will be the first museum to do so.

Its architecture, then, says Ando, should also reflect that. “I want to create a museum that can synthesize southern China’s rich diverse cultures that stretches many millennia and the influences that birthed Lingnan architecture,” the architect explains in a statement. “I imagined HEM as an energetic central anchor point to all the artistic and regional custom, climate, landscape, and civilization in Lingnan.” In addition to cosmology, he found design influences in the architecture of the nearby Jiangnan delta region (home to Shanghai), which has a similar terrain to southern China, as well as the founder’s surname, He, which is also a Chinese word meaning “balance,” “fortune,” “harmony,” and “union.”