Manchester Airport has launched Chinese New Year celebrations over the Lunar New Year holiday period (mid-January to mid-February), ahead of a new Shanghai flight service commencing in March with leading Chinese carrier, Juneyao Air.

The route will be of huge popularity with the 183,000 people in the airport’s catchment area who currently travel to Shanghai via other means, said the airport. “Manchester boasts Europe’s third largest Chinatown and the North has seen a 9% increase in Chinese students since Manchester’s route to Beijing launched three years ago,” continued the airport’s statement.

Andrew Cowan, CEO of Manchester Airport, said: “Chinese New Year is all about prosperity and new beginnings and that is clearly true for the 183,000 people in our catchment area that this new route will benefit. Not only will the enhanced connectivity benefit existing passengers and business going to Shanghai, it will also stimulate new trade and tourism opportunities for everyone.

We’ve seen first-hand how a new connection, most notably our service to Beijing, can generate and unlock a range of economic benefits. In just three years our route to Beijing has delivered a 38% increase in Chinese visitors, a 94% increase in average spend per visit and a 41% growth in export values. We are sure the same will come from this service to Shanghai with Juneyao Air.

“Routes like this and the other long-haul ones we’ve announced and launched this year demonstrate the role we play in the North, connecting people and businesses to key global hubs. As the year goes on and our £1bn transformation continues, we will continue to play this role to help everyone in the North continue to prosper.”

Wang Qun, General Manager at Juneyao UK, said:“This is a great way for China to welcome in the New Year with a new route to Manchester, and Juneyao Air’s first base in the UK.

“The route will be a huge advantage to the people in Northern England looking to access Shanghai and vice versa with people in China looking to access what Manchester and the wider North has to offer.

“We are sure the route will be a huge success and look forward to flying one of our state of the art Boeing Dreamliners 787-900 on it. The Year of the Rat is set to be an exciting one for us all at Juneyao Air as we forge stronger ties with Manchester and the North.”