Shanghai (Gasgoo)- On Feb. 25, the ceremony to celebrate the mass production of NIO EC6 was held at the JAC NIO Advanced Manufacturing Center in Hefei, according to a post on NIO's WeChat account. Meanwhile, the startup signed a framework agreement with Hefei municipal government to launch its China headquarters in the capital of Anhui province.

（Photo source: NIO)

The EC6 all-electric coupe SUV will be the third model mass produced at the Hefei-based JAC-NIO manufacturing base, said NIO. Offering the first glimpse at the 2019 NIO Day, the company plans to announce the price and configuration of the EC6 in July, and kick off the delivery in this year's September.



Reportedly, under the significant program of NIO, the startup will set up its China headquarters in Hefei, build there the base of R&D, sale and production, and develop a national operational system with Hefei as the focus.

Over RMB10 billion are set to be raised for the program's R&D business, the construction of marketing system, the building of production facilities and corporation operation.

In April 2016, NIO and JAC Motors signed a strategic cooperation agreement worthy of about RMB10 billion, confirming a plan to produce 50,000 cars in the first phase. From then on, the Hefei-based automaker became the contract manufacturer for the high-profile EV startup.

On May 28, 2019, NIO's second SUV production model, the ES6, officially rolled off the production line at the JAC NIO Advanced Manufacturing Center.

NIO has already launched three mass-produced models—the ES8, the ES6 and the EC6, of which the former two have been put onto the market. As of December 31, 2019, aggregate deliveries of the ES6 and the ES8 reached 31,913 vehicles, of which 20,565 were delivered in 2019.

After the extended shutdown caused by the coronavirus outbreak, NIO's Hefei plant and Nanjing-based XPT factory have already resumed operation, according to a post on NIO's app.

Gasgoo not only offers timely news and profound insight about China auto industry, but also help with business connection and expansion for suppliers and purchasers via multiple channels and methods. Buyer service: buyer-support@gasgoo.com Seller Service: seller-support@gasgoo.com

All Rights Reserved. Do not reproduce, copy and use the editorial content without permission. Contact us: autonews@gasgoo.com.