Sign up to FREE email alerts from BelfastLive - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A Derry school is the only one from NI to make the UK grand final of a Mandarin speaking contest.

Pupils from Lumen Christi College will go head-to-head with those from 42 other schools in a bid to take the title.

The British Council Mandarin Speaking Competition takes place at the Victory Services Club in London on February 5.

Lumen Christi Vice Principal, Dr Marie Ferris, said their pupils "are looking forward to a trip to London".

"The students are very excited about the opportunity – they can't wait to represent the school on such a big stage," she added.

"They've been putting in the extra hours since they found out they were through to the final - fitting study around their exams and Christmas.

"I must pay tribute to their Mandarin teachers, Olivia and Sunflower from the Confucius Institute, who have worked so hard with them. As a school, we have been part of the Confucius project since 2014 and it's created so many opportunities for our pupils, helping them learn more about Chinese language and culture.

"We are delighted to have pupils once again in the final and wish them all the best for Wednesday."

Lumen Christi students will compete in a number of categories.

Anitta Sibin will fight for the title in the Beginners’ category, Leo Doherty in the Intermediate, while Matthew Rodgers, Niamh Fleming, Grace Martin, Vibhav Nthanankalva and Owen McFadden will take to the stage for the Group Performance section.

This is not the first time Lumen Christi College pupils have made it through to the final – with previous students qualifying for London in 2018.

Research by the British Council has found that Mandarin is the second most important foreign language for the UK's influence on the global stage.

As the most spoken language in the world, it is recognised as a valuable skill for young people in the UK with 77% of British business leaders surveyed in 2018 saying that speaking Mandarin will give school leavers a career advantage.

Speaking ahead of the competition, Jonathan Stewart, Director, British Council Northern Ireland, said: "Congratulations to Lumen Christi for getting this far, it's testament to the hard work the pupils and teachers have put in throughout the past year. I've no doubt that they'll act as great ambassadors for Northern Ireland and perform to the best of their ability.

"Learning languages such as Mandarin also provide pupils with a rich insight into a vibrant and different culture, helping to increase intercultural understanding.

"With more than one billion Mandarin Chinese speakers in the world, it is vital that more of our young people learn this valuable language in order to live in an increasingly connected society and compete in a global economy."