CLOSE

Cascade County Commissioner Joe Briggs (Photo: Courtesy photo)

Cascade County Commissioner Joe Briggs is in Washington, D.C. to attend President Donald Trump's signing of a trade agreement with China Wednesday in the East Room of the White House.

Briggs, a Republican, received an email invitation from the White House social secretary after being notified he would be invited by William Crozer, special assistant to the president, White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs.

Briggs, who serves on the executive committee of the National Association of Counties, told the Tribune by telephone Tuesday from Washington, D.C. that he's really not sure why he was invited.

He's worked with Crozer before on other issues through the National Association of Counties, he said.

He's been to the White House as a tourist but never on business.

More: Firefighters push back on conflict of interest resolution

"I've been in a few meetings in the Executive Office Building next door, which is sometimes referred to as the White House, but it's really not the White House," Briggs said.

He's honored to have been invited.

Briggs received the invitation Friday. He flew to Washington on his own dime Tuesday.

President Trump will sign phase one of the U.S.-China Trade agreement at 9:15 a.m. Montana time, according to U.S. Sen. Steve Daines, R-Mont.

The deal will open up major potential for ag businesses across the state and country, said Daines, who will also be at the signing ceremony.

In Cascade County, the agreement will result in an expanded market for pulse crops, Briggs said. It will also increase potential markets for Montana beef, poultry and pork, Briggs said.

Briggs doesn't know if he will get the chance to meet President Trump.

"I will be able to meet some other people who could be a lot of use in getting Cascade County's issues addressed so that's why I chose to be out here," Briggs said.

The administration deserves praise for completing another trade negotiation that fosters fair trade between the United States and another major economy while establishing a higher level of respect between the United States and another nuclear power, Briggs said.

The Senate also is expected to vote on the U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agreement this week, Daines said.

Karl Puckett covers the city of Great Falls and Cascade County for the Tribune. He can be reached at kpuckett@greatfallstribune or 406-791-1471, or on Twitter at @GFTrib_KPuckett.

This coverage is only possible with support from our readers. Sign up today for a digital subscription.

Read or Share this story: https://www.greatfallstribune.com/story/news/2020/01/14/commissioner-briggs-white-house-trade-deal-signing/4471244002/