Pagoda organized a grand ceremony in Beijing on the 9th of January to announce both the official new standards for Musang King durian and the Daba Musang King durian brand. During the press conference, Pagoda introduced an integrated system for Musang King durian standards in the Chinese market. The new standards are based on the concept of outstanding flavor. They cover five fields and distinguish four grades. Pagoda combined these fields and grades to create 15 individual marks to describe Musang King durian. At the same time, relying on these marks, Pagoda officially introduced the world to a new Musang King durian brand--Daba Musang King.

The Musang Kind durian market is a fast-growing market. The fruit is quite popular with a large group of consumers. However, the market lacks proper standards. Consumers have difficulty judging the quality of durian without proper standards to rely on. They find it particularly difficult to understand their rights as consumers after they purchased Musang King durian. The announcement of new standards for the Musang King durian market is the result of cooperation between production areas and durian end-markets.

Pagoda hopes that consumers will no longer blindly purchase Musang King durian now that they will have official standards to help them select the best durian in the market. Pagoda introduced these new standards to help consumers purchase durian on the basis of product quality. At the same time, Pagoda hopes these standards will change the durian industry itself. Standards will reduce the number of farmers who blindly grow durian without an eye for product quality. The new system can gather and analyse quantified market feedback to predict consumer preferences. This kind of information is extremely useful for durian farmers when they make decisions on plantation adjustments, product quality improvement, etc.

The newly established Daba Musang King durian will also strengthen the trust between Pagoda and their customers. The brand benefits from the superior market position of Pagoda and the years of marketing experience of its team. This brand will help Chinese consumers develop a correct and comprehensive understanding of Musang King durian. Furthermore, the brand will help to protect consumer rights. Consumer feedback will also help to improve developments in the industry and encourage farmers to pursue excellent product quality. The combination of new standards and a new brand will provide consumers with excellent, delicious durian to eat, while at the same time creating opportunities for farmers to make a healthy profit, thereby shaping a virtuous cycle of sustainable development in the Musang King durian industry.

Malaysia recently obtained permission to export whole durian to the Chinese market. This development led to enthusiasm among Malaysian durian packaging companies, many of whom are excited to cooperate with Pagoda. According to our understanding, Pagoda already established strategic relations with six Malaysian durian companies in 2019. The durian plantations of these partners cover a combined total of 1,214 hectares. Data from Pagoda shows that the company has sold more than 200 thousand Musang King durian before the end of 2019.

Please read the news announcement for more information (Chinese).

Pagoda

Tel.: +86 400-181-1212

E-mail: pr@pagoda.com.cn

Website: www.pagoda.com.cn