KOTA KINABALU: Sabah Umno has found a winning formula that has proven to work for the benefit of the party, says its chief Datuk Bung Moktar Radin.

He said the formula emphasising collaborations with other opposition parties had led to Barisan Nasional winning in by-elections at Tanjung Piai, Johor, and later Kimanis, Sabah.

“To win the hearts of the people, we must be one and we have to be together,” he said, adding that collaborations with other opposition parties will also be their strategy as they prepare for GE15.

“Elections can happen anytime and we have to be ready. We can see that the Pakatan Harapan government seems unstable as they are fighting among themselves,” Bung said during the Sabah MCA Chinese New Year open house here Sunday (Feb 16).

Bung said they expected more electoral wins using the same formula.

When asked about talk that Sabah Umno MPs supported Prime Minister Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad to stay a full term as premier, Bung said they supported whoever in government that does well for the people.

He said Sabah Umno leaders, however, had not discussed the matter further.

Sabah MCA chief Lu Yen Tung said the opposition working together was a proven success and they needed to find more ways to strengthen MCA and the opposition as a whole.

“We have been said to be a peninsula-based party but realising the unique scenario in Sabah, our central leadership has agreed to allow Sabah MCA to have its own autonomy on certain matters including selection of candidates and constituencies they wish to contest in,” he said.

He said the same goes for allowing Sabah MCA to source for partners that can help strengthen the party and the opposition in Sabah.

MCA president Datuk Seri Dr Wee Ka Siong said more autonomy for Sabah MCA means more confidence and support from the people on the ground.

He said with more autonomy for Sabah MCA, the central leadership still gave it the necessary support, including finances, to see that programmes are carried out smoothly.

“We give them full endorsement to handle matters that are autonomous for Sabah MCA but still, we provide training with regard to the system or how to prepare themselves, as well as other necessary support to make sure they are ready,” Dr Wee said.

He added that their main focus was to win the next general election and to see that the needs of the people are met.

“We won’t compromise on Sabah issues,” he added.

Dr Wee said they must be smart in strategising for wins and to regain support from the ground and that is why they needed to continue fighting for what is the best for the people.