The Nissan Sylphy Zero Emission, the first Nissan electric car made for China, has begun rolling off the production line.

The start of production by Dongfeng Nissan Passenger Vehicle Co. (Dongfeng Nissan), Nissan’s joint venture with Dongfeng Motor Group Co., Ltd., coincides with another milestone: The companies have built 10 million vehicles in China since they started operations.







As Nissan’s first all-electric vehicle built in China specifically for Chinese consumers, the Nissan Sylphy Zero Emission promises to usher in a new era of electrification in the world’s largest automotive market. The model was developed based on the platform of the world’s best-selling electric vehicle, the Nissan LEAF, and the best-selling Nissan sedan in China, the Sylphy. It’s being built at Dongfeng Nissan’s Huadu plant.

“Growth in the Chinese market is a critical part of Nissan’s midterm plan, Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022,” said Hiroto Saikawa, Nissan Motor Co., Ltd.’s president and CEO. “China is already the world’s largest automotive market. But China isn’t just a leader in terms of market size: It stands at the forefront of the development of the industry itself.

The market is now evolving extremely quickly, especially in the areas of electrification and connectivity. In fact, China is expected to lead the world in the adoption and spread of EVs in the coming years. We’re confident that the Sylphy Zero Emission rolling off the production line today will become a main player in the EV market here. It’s going to pave the way for our Nissan Intelligent Mobility strategy in the Chinese market.”

“By the end of 2019, DFL plans to launch five new EV models across the Nissan, Venucia and Dongfeng brands. We’re going to roll out a range of EVs that will appeal to customers within all market segments.”

Ranking among Nissan’s most productive plants, Huadu has played a key role in the 15 years since the company began operating in China. The plant is on a path to help Dongfeng Nissan reach the next 10 million-vehicle milestone by producing the Sylphy Zero Emission, along with many other planned models aimed at delivering excitement and the latest mobility solutions to Chinese consumers.

Building on their strong partnership over the past 15 years, Dongfeng and Nissan will continue to bring advanced technologies and world-class vehicles to customers in China.