Some investors rely on dividends for growing their wealth, and if you're one of those dividend sleuths, you might be intrigued to know that China YuHua Education Corporation Limited (HKG:6169) is about to go ex-dividend in just 3 days. If you purchase the stock on or after the 6th of February, you won't be eligible to receive this dividend, when it is paid on the 21st of February.

China YuHua Education's next dividend payment will be HK$0.073 per share, and in the last 12 months, the company paid a total of HK$0.12 per share. Calculating the last year's worth of payments shows that China YuHua Education has a trailing yield of 2.4% on the current share price of HK$5.43. Dividends are a major contributor to investment returns for long term holders, but only if the dividend continues to be paid. We need to see whether the dividend is covered by earnings and if it's growing.

See our latest analysis for China YuHua Education

Dividends are usually paid out of company profits, so if a company pays out more than it earned then its dividend is usually at greater risk of being cut. Its dividend payout ratio is 82% of profit, which means the company is paying out a majority of its earnings. The relatively limited profit reinvestment could slow the rate of future earnings growth It could become a concern if earnings started to decline. That said, even highly profitable companies sometimes might not generate enough cash to pay the dividend, which is why we should always check if the dividend is covered by cash flow. It distributed 34% of its free cash flow as dividends, a comfortable payout level for most companies.

It's positive to see that China YuHua Education's dividend is covered by both profits and cash flow, since this is generally a sign that the dividend is sustainable, and a lower payout ratio usually suggests a greater margin of safety before the dividend gets cut.

Click here to see the company's payout ratio, plus analyst estimates of its future dividends.

SEHK:6169 Historical Dividend Yield, February 2nd 2020 More

Have Earnings And Dividends Been Growing?

Businesses with strong growth prospects usually make the best dividend payers, because it's easier to grow dividends when earnings per share are improving. If earnings fall far enough, the company could be forced to cut its dividend. This is why it's a relief to see China YuHua Education earnings per share are up 2.6% per annum over the last three years. A payout ratio of 82% looks like a tacit signal from management that reinvestment opportunities in the business are low. In line with limited earnings growth in recent years, this is not the most appealing combination.

Many investors will assess a company's dividend performance by evaluating how much the dividend payments have changed over time. In the past three years, China YuHua Education has increased its dividend at approximately 22% a year on average. We're glad to see dividends rising alongside earnings over a number of years, which may be a sign the company intends to share the growth with shareholders.

The Bottom Line

Is China YuHua Education an attractive dividend stock, or better left on the shelf? Earnings per share growth has been modest and China YuHua Education paid out over half of its profits and less than half of its free cash flow, although both payout ratios are within normal limits. In summary, it's hard to get excited about China YuHua Education from a dividend perspective.