CLOSE Dave Chappelle talks about his endorsement of Andrew Yang before a show in Ames, Iowa. The Des Moines Register

AMES, Ia.— Dave Chappelle isn't a comedian that minces words in his jokes for the sake of others. The 46-year-old took the stage Tuesday night at Stephens Auditorium for a set that was hilarious but would get those of us who work in an office sent to HR — and likely fired.

Chappelle addressed reactions to his recent Netflix special "Sticks & Stones," which garnered mixed reviews from several media outlets. He enjoyed that people were up in arms about his jokes — and he didn't care.

Chappelle during Tuesday night's stand-up set tried new material , which ranged on various topics, including LGBTQ issues, Dream Hampton's "Surviving R. Kelly" documentary, marriage, conservatives and the Wuhan coronavirus. The crowd was along for the ride, finding humor in the blunt, but hilarious statements.

Chappelle singled out a 10-year-old fan in the audience — who was there with his dad — and taught him a thing or two on marriage in a facetious manner, mainly about the importance of intimacy. He wrapped up the lesson by telling the boy, "Remember you met me because I'm a pretty amazing guy."

Chappelle also proved his ability to improvise. Throughout the night, the comedian had issues with the sound system, which was blowing out the volume, making it hard for the audience to hear, prompting Chappelle to ask if anyone knew how to fix the speakers.

Coincidentally, an audience member from Los Angeles in the front row knew how to fix the speakers and came to the rescue. Chappelle joked that a person he isn't paying knew how to fix the sound.

As payment, Chappelle gave him a cigarette and lit it for him on stage. Then, the star asked for two beers, and the audio hero and the comedian toasted each other before the show continued.

Buy Photo Andrew Yang, Democratic presidential candidate, and Comedian Dave Chappelle answer questions from the press before Chappelle's performance, on Tuesday, Jan. 28, 2020, at Stephens Auditorium in Ames, Iowa. Chappelle spoke to the press about why he's endorsed Yang. (Photo: Kelsey Kremer/The Register)

While Brianna Hall, the marketing manager at Iowa State Center, told the Register that Chappelle's show was not a fundraiser for presidential candidate Andrew Yang, his supporters were still in full effect with about half the audience part of the #YangGang.

Politics aside, no denying that the comedian still as entertaining as ever.

Sierra Porter covers entertainment for the Des Moines Register. She can be contacted at sporter@registermedia.com or via Twitter @SierraAPorter95.

Read or Share this story: https://www.desmoinesregister.com/story/entertainment/arts/review/2020/01/29/dave-chappelle-debuts-new-jokes-iowa-show-stephens-auditorium/4609963002/