Sign up to FREE email alerts from Liverpool Echo - What's On Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

As Liverpool celebrated Chinese New Year over the weekend it got people reminiscing about Chinese restaurants they miss in the city.

Today, Liverpool is home to many fantastic Chinese restaurants and takeaways but there are some from years gone by that people would love to see come back.

People shared their old favourites on the Liverpool ECHO Facebook page and there were a few names that kept cropping up, including the Golden Phoenix on Hanover Street.

Liverpool ECHO Facebook follower Louise Doherty said: “Miss all the old ones like Golden Phoenix in Hanover St, Yams and the Far East.”

Join our new Facebook group - Liverpool's Essential Food and Drink Guide

The Golden Phoenix was a clear favourite, with people recalling its ‘dessert island’ full of cakes, and its cheap business lunch offer. The first Chinese restaurant to arrive in Liverpool, it opened in the 1960s and was close to where the Premier Inn sits now.

It was demolished in 2009 by Liverpool ONE developer Grosvenor to make way for the new retail and leisure space.

Lisa Jane Fitzpatrick also enjoyed many meals there. She wrote: “I loved the golden phoenix Hanover Street I had a meal there for my aunt's wedding and I also had a meal there for my 18th birthday both times were absolutely brilliant, also Loren's chippy on rice lane lovely meals (it been taken over now) this was 16 years ago.”

Dean Deano Matthews, remembered ‘Norman’ at the Golden Phoenix. He said: “...went every Saturday lunchtime with my dad from when I was about 8.”

The Shanghai Palace at the Pier Head is another favourite missed by many. The Chinese restaurant - now home to Matou - overlooked the Mersey and was decorated with bold colours, including a bright red carpet throughout.

Another favourite was the Kong Nam, by Boodles. Les Webb wrote: “Had to go downstairs to it. 2 course business lunch £5:55 when I used to go... little old fella at the till behind the cage took your cash on the way out. Boss.”