THE Sunway Group is ushering in the Year of the Rat in festive splendour starting with its “Bank of Luck” theme at Sunway Carnival Mall in Seberang Jaya.

This theme features the Calabash or Bottle Gourd or hulu in Chinese as its main decor to reflect an auspicious and positive vibe, said the mall’s general manager Chai Wen Yen.

Chai said the festive Lunar New Year theme, Instagram worthy decorations and other activities will provide shoppers with a memorable visit to the mall

The traditional elements - symbolising fortune, abundance, happiness and luck will be adopted by each mall under the Sunway Group.

Chai said Sunway Carnival Mall will also be teaming up with the Permatang Tinggi old folks home to spread some festive cheer among the elderly inmates.

The mall also intends to elevate the celebration with a vast array of festive offerings, charity activities, cultural performances and scrumptious reunion dinners as well as not to be missed promotions and redemptions for shoppers.

Present at the launch of the “Bank of Luck” theme were state executive councillor Phee Boon Poh, Shopping Malaysia secretariat (domestic promotion division) head Norliza Md Zain, Sunway Berhad property development division senior executive director Daniel Lim Hin Soon, Tourism Malaysia northern region deputy director Siti Hajar Yunus, Sunway Property Penang general manager Ahila Ganeson, Sunway Property Penang assistant general manager Fong Choon Fuoi and Sunway Penang hotels’ finance director Woo Hing Siang.

Meanwhile the Sunway George Town and Sunway Seberang Jaya Hotels unveiled a reunion feast promotion for families who intend to dine out.

Their Chinese New Year eve buffet dinner offers over 50 dishes to meet any cravings including the customary New Year dish of yee sang with salmon.

There are also private eight course set dinners for families or companies.

The hotel also took into account that seafood remains a perennial favourite among diners here, so there will be a variety of seafood dishes from mussels, scallops and fresh prawns, besides the staple delights of roasted lamb and chicken chop.

In another development, Global Penang Tourism has also planned 10 programmes to mark the Year of the Rat, this includes open houses, a hot air balloon fiesta and a display of lights at the Kek Lok Si Temple here.

These programmes are part of efforts to usher in the Lunar New Year under the “Experience Penang” campaign.