Kicking off the Lunar New Year: Where to celebrate around Seattle this weekend

The Chinese New Year kicks off this Jan. 25. Keep clicking for some of our favorite hot pot spots around Seattle for celebrating this weekend. The Chinese New Year kicks off this Jan. 25. Keep clicking for some of our favorite hot pot spots around Seattle for celebrating this weekend. Photo: YE AUNG THU / Contributor / Getty Images Photo: YE AUNG THU / Contributor / Getty Images Image 1 of / 10 Caption Close Kicking off the Lunar New Year: Where to celebrate around Seattle this weekend 1 / 10 Back to Gallery

Xīnnián kuàilè!

Or, for those who don't speak Chinese, a humble 'Happy New Year' will do.

The Chinese New Year, also known as the Lunar New Year or Spring Festival, officially kicks off today on Jan. 25, and will run through Feb. 4. To celebrate the year of the metal rat this weekend, many Seattleites are readying their red lanterns, reunion dinner menus, and firecrackers to kick off the festivities.

And in a city like Seattle, where Chinatown took shape as early as 1910, it's kind of a big deal.

If you're up for the party, read through the list below for all the celebrations around the Emerald City. From ancient recipe brews to dancing lions, we've got your Chinese New Year plans covered.

RELATED: Spice up Chinese New Year at these Seattle hot pot favorites

Get celebratory and ceremonial at the Wing Luke Museum

Seattle's museum of the Asian Pacific American Experience in the Chinatown-International District is kicking off the Lunar New Year at 10 a.m. Saturday. They'll start things off with an opening ceremony outside the museum from 10-11 a.m., hosting the LQ Lion Dance Team, and will keep the party going with free admission for children and students to follow. From 11 a.m. to close, enjoy raffle drawings, face painting, and a showing of Ratatouille inside, or dip into some of the district's dim sum while you're in the neighborhood.

Pour up a pint and snag a red envelope at Lucky Envelope Brewing

Both Jan. 25 and 26, ring in the Lunar New Year at Ballard's Lucky Envelope Brewing come noon. Throughout both days, they'll pour up pints of culturally-inspired beer, the ancient recipe brew of the Mijiaya Historic Chinese beer, and the Metal Rat Hazy IPA, a cross-country collaboration with Chinese-American owned Highland Brewing in North Carolina. They'll also give out 88 red envelopes (customary per tradition as a symbol of good luck given to friends and family, often filled with some extra cash,) alongside Chinese New Year merchandise and Panda Dim Sum handing out steamy Chinese cuisine.

Set sail and catch the party on Mercer Island

Mercer Island Chinese Association is partnering with the City of Mercer Island to host a multiplicity of festivities this Jan. 5 at the Mercer Island Community and Event Center from 11-2 p.m.. Nosh on plenty of Chinese grub and hop in on traditional Chinese dances, music, and martial arts as the event celebrates Chinese culture and the Mercer Island Chinese Association's third annual festival.

Listen to the drums beat in Snoqualmie

Take an adventurous trip out to the Snoqualmie Valley YMCA and Community Center for an ultimate Lunar New Year Celebration this Saturday from noon to 3 p.m.. Festivities alongside the free event will include drum performances, lion dancers, acrobatics, and a taste of Asian culture amid a variety of on-site food trucks. Or, curate your own paper lantern at the arts and crafts booths.

Snag some sweet Chinese treats from Columbia City's Super Six or West Seattle's Indulge Desserts

Celebrate the Lunar New Year sugar-style via Super Six's White Rabbit cream filled malasadas. Only available Saturday from 4-8 p.m., these nostalgic Chinese milk candies are melted into cream, turned into filling, and stuffed into puffy malasadas, which are traditionally a fried doughnut-like confection courtesy of the Portuguese. If you're meandering around West Seattle, swing by Indulge Desserts for Chinese dipped marshmallow lanterns and a fortune sugar cookie (or ten).