Hongkong - Jan 13th, 2020 - Under the guidance of Beijing Research Institute of China Telecom, Tus Data Asset, and Huobi China, sponsored by LEBEN, and organized by Fenbushi Capital, Polychain Capital, Bit Digital Technology, and BCH Ecological Fund, GDAC 2020 Global Digital and Industrial Innovation Development Summit Forum was successfully held in Macau, China on January 4th 2019.



Image 1 - Main stage panorama of GADC 2020

The chief architect of LEBEN Zhu Haogang attended the conference and gave a keynote speech on LEBEN: The Safe Flow of Medical Data and Knowledge. He stated that the core competence of medical collaboration lies in the ability to regulate data, and how to establish a reliable, transparent, and traceable data exchange and business collaboration system is the key part.



Image 2 - Zhu Haogang, chief architect of LEBEN, gave a speech

During the Signing Ceremony, Tus Data Asset, LEBEN and LKBT jointly signed a strategic cooperation agreement, and the three parties will conduct in-depth cooperation on the underlying technology of blockchain. Wu Shifan, Vice President of Tus Data Asset, Zhu Haogang, Chief Architect of LEBEN, and Evan, Chief Marketing Officer of LKBT, signed the contract on behalf of their respective projects on stage.



Image 3 - Representatives of Tus Data Asset, LEBEN and LKBT signed the contract on stage

Official Launching Ceremony of GDAC Joint Initiative on Innovative Development

Advocated by Tus Data Asset and Huobi China, Tus Data Asset, Huobi China, LEBEN, LKBT, Dr. Gao Jian, Director Liang Wei, Seele, Conflux, Poly Chain Capital and BCH Ecological Fund jointly issued GDAC Joint Initiative on Innovative Development. The launching ceremony also started at the conference.



Image 4 - Launching Ceremony of GDAC Joint Initiative on Innovative Development

The initiative aims to provide all-round services such as technology, venue, policy, fund and ecology for the high-quality blockchain projects in China, so as to better develop the core technology of blockchain industry in China and attain the grand goal of core technology breakthrough as soon as possible.

During the Awarding Ceremony, LEBEN won GDAC 2020 Best Application Innovation Award by virtue of multiple applications in the medical field. The chief architect of LEBEN Zhu Haogang came to the stage to receive the award on behalf of LEBEN.



Image 5 - LEBEN won the Best Application Innovation Award

At the final part of the conference, five guests from different areas of blockchain participated in Roundable Forum. They are Zhu Haogang, chief architect of LEBEN, Liang Wei, current director of 2025 Lab of Beijing Research Institute of China Telecom, Qi Fang, representative of the Conflux, Dai Shanshan, CEO of CoinKaola, and Wang Peng, head of BCH Ecological Fund. The five guests talked from their respective areas of expertise on how to seize china's hundred years of opportunity for blockchain innovation and development.

GDAC 2020 invited academic authorities, industry experts, research institutions, and representatives of global well-known blockchain projects to come together, combining the latest trends in the development of blockchain, to jointly explore new models that promote blockchain technology and innovative development, and to look forward to a bright future full of opportunities and challenges for blockchain industry.

Guests who attended the conference include Shi Dongwei, President of Tus Data Asset, Gao Jian, Chief Economist of LEBEN, Wu Shifan, Vice President of Tus Date Asset, Amos Lang, Founder of LKBT, Yu Jianing, President of Huobi University and other senior industry experts.

About LEBEN

LEBEN, a smart-contract-based collaboration platform for medical industry, technologically features "trusted data exchange" and "profound sharing knowledge". The trusted computing technologies ensure that the data in the exchange process to be non-replicable, non-removable, and invisible so as ensure trusted data exchange among different institutions, different areas and different countries. Meanwhile, through another knowledge-calculating technology we developed, doctors can easily convert their knowledge into smart contracts for efficient learning and even provide auxiliary decisions in the process of diagnosis and treatment. This technology will help deepen shared medical knowledge. This technology will help to achieve in-depth sharing of medical knowledge. With the application and development of trusted data and the participation of all ecological parties, LEBEN will promote the rapid development of digital petroleum economy and Equalized Healthcare, benefiting billions of people.

About GDAC 2020

The full name of GDAC 2020 is Global Digital and Industrial Innovation Development Summit Forum 2020. The summit is held under the guidance of Tus Data Asset, Beijing Research Institute of China Telecom, and Huobi China. It aims to respond to the call of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and focuses on promoting the development of blockchain technology and industrial innovation. The summit invites academic authorities, industry experts, research institutions, and representatives of global well-known blockchain projects to come together, combining the latest trends in the development of blockchain, to jointly explore new models that promote blockchain technology and innovative development, and to look forward to a bright future full of opportunities and challenges for the blockchain industry.

Source URL: https://kjnewswire.com/5007/leben-s-chief-architect-zhu-haogang-attended-gdac-2020-global-digital-and-industrial-innovation

Media Contact

Company Name: LEBEN

Contact Person: Lion

Email: Send Email

Phone: +86 13260255667

Address:4th floor, Building B9, Yonghe One Center Dongcheng district

City: Beijing

Country: China

Website: http://leben.pro







