Tourism Authorities

GAO Group will be Tourism Vancouver’s official agency offering their services to support the organization’s Asia Pacific corporate incentive business development programs.

Vancouver, BC, Canada - Tourism Vancouver announced the appointment of a new agency, GAO Group International, to support regional sales efforts in Asia Pacific.

Effective January 2020, GAO Group will be Tourism Vancouver’s official agency offering their services to support the organization’s Asia Pacific corporate incentive business development programs. From GAO Group’s head office in Melbourne and their regional office in Shanghai, they are perfectly positioned to promote Vancouver as a must visit Incentive Travel destination across the broader region.

GAO Group is a global strategy and marketing agency specializing in Asia Pacific tourism, aviation and hospitality sectors. Their Canadian experience includes working with Vancouver International Airport, to develop and support their Integrated Marketing Strategy and deliver in-market business events, as well working with Rocky Mountaineer to deliver their digital marketing and partnerships in China.

The Asian Meeting and Incentive sector has been a valuable market for Vancouver but this new partnership will involve further expanding sales and marketing efforts in Australia, New Zealand, Japan and South East Asia, all in addition to continuing to develop and strengthen existing relationships in Greater China.

GAO Group’s Managing Director and Co-Founder, Lindsay Goding will take the lead on regional sales and marketing efforts for Tourism Vancouver. He’ll be supported by business development managers, Daxi Zhang and Mirai Kirsanovs and an extended multi-lingual team in Melbourne, Shanghai and Tokyo.

Tourism Vancouver has seen past corporate incentive clients such as Amway Japan, Cathay Life Insurance, Hunan YanDi and Usana China select Vancouver for their meetings. Vancouver is a desirable location for Asia Pacific based organizations because of the city’s world class access and experience at YVR, a diverse year round Incentive Travel offering and unforgettable experiences in nature; all in the comfort of a modern cosmopolitan city.