Students at Bryant University are now enjoying iconic flavors from China, Vietnam, Thailand and beyond with the grand opening of Lemon Grass Kitchen.

Created by celebrity chef and cookbook author Mai Pham of the acclaimed Lemon Grass and Star Ginger restaurants of Sacramento, the new offerings feature Vietnamese pho noodle soup to Thai curries to traditional Chinese dishes.

The new restaurant was introduced by Bryant University Dining by Sodexo.

"The food is great, definitely authentic. It feels like I'm eating at home," said Nyatasha Jackowicz, a senior-year Bryant University student.

Chef Pham, who's opened more than 30 locations nationwide, is known for bringing iconic Asian flavors and restaurant style food to university campuses. She's the chef/owner of the nationally acclaimed Lemon Grass Restaurant and Star Ginger Fresh Asian Flavors, host of the TV Food Network 'My Country, My Kitchen' and author of three award-winning cookbooks including "Pleasures of the Vietnamese Table", "The Best of Vietnamese and Thai Cooking," and "Flavors of Asia" which was written in collaboration with the Culinary Institute of America.

"We're so excited to be working with Bryant University," said Chef Pham. "The university leadership and the Sodexo food team here are absolutely passionate about offering to their students greater variety including authentic Asian flavors and delicious vegetarian options."

Chef Pham, who partners with Sodexo and others in providing fresh Pan-Asian flavors in non-commercial foodservice environments, has launched over 28 locations of her branded concepts nationwide. "While our core is Vietnamese and Thai flavors, our menu cycle is quite expansive with lively, robust flavors from China, Korea, Japan, Singapore and India."

"We're passionate about training," said Tina Freedman, vice president of operations who leads development and training for Lemon Grass Kitchen and Star Ginger. "We work very closely with our partners making sure the operation is set up for success. The food team here at Bryant is amazing and we feel fortunate to have them as partners."

Shawn Monaghan, general manager of Bryant Dining Services said Lemon Grass Kitchen has been a hit with students.

"The addition of Lemon Grass Kitchen is a great enhancement to our dining program," said Monaghan. We are catering to our students' sophisticated palates while delivering more diverse global dining options."

Editorial Contact: Jennifer Toone Corrigan, In Toone Communication, jtoone@intoone.com