Edward and Barbara ‘Bobbie’ Gordon of Potsdam congratulate the first recipient of the Fannie Frank Distinguished CNA Award, Deborah LaRock, center, a United Helpers employee for 27-plus years, now at UH’s Rehab & Senior Care in Canton. The Gordons are volunteers with United Helpers. The award is named for Edward Gordon’s late grandmother, who immigrated to the U.S. from Poland more than 100 years ago. Photo from United Helpers

CANTON – Longtime United Helpers CNA Deborah LaRock was recently honored as the winner of the organization’s first “Fannie Frank Distinguished CNA Award.”

United Helpers volunteers and donors Dr. Edward I. and Barbara K. Gordon, who created the award as a tribute to Mr. Gordon’s grandmother, recently met with Ms. LaRock and presented her with the honor.

LaRock, of Gouverneur, has been a United Helpers employee caring for residents at the company’s facilities in Canton for more than 27 years.

United Helpers Rehabilitation and Senior Care Canton’s Vice President of Operations Kimberly Blair nominated her.

In her written nomination, Blair highly commended Ms. LaRock.

“She treats the residents as she would her own family and gives them the care and respect they deserve. Deb does not think that she is special or deserves any recognition,” she wrote. “In her mind, she is doing what she must do to take care of her residents. In my mind, she is a gem. She is the type of CNA that makes a nursing home a home.”

The Fannie Frank Award, which is $1,000, is awarded based on these criteria:

• a remarkably caring demeanor

• remarkably competent care

• continuous employment with UH for five or more years

• nomination by the Vice President of Operations at her respective facility.

According to Dr. Gordon, Ms. Frank was a Polish immigrant who moved to the U.S. prior to World War I with her parents and six of her nine siblings. Three of her older siblings were already married and stayed behind, he said. They perished in World War II.

Dr. Gordon grew up in New York City in close proximity to his grandmother and credits her with instilling in him a love of animals that would eventually lead to his career as a veterinarian, noting that he and his grandmother were the only “animal lovers” in his family.

In addition to paying tribute to his grandmother, Dr. Gordon said the award will serve as a way to honor his family’s legacy.

“Now, her name will live on forever,” he said.