HONG KONG, Jan. 8, 2020 /PRNewswire/ -- Four subsidiaries of Lee Kum Kee Sauce Group were named the "Best Companies to Work for in Asia 2019" by HR Asia, including Lee Kum Kee Company Ltd. (Headquarters in Hong Kong, China) , Lee Kum Kee (China) Trading Ltd., Lee Kum Kee (Xinhui) Food Co. Ltd. (Xinhui Production Base) and Lee Kum Kee (M) Sdn Bhd. The award serves as a testament to the group's remarkable performance on human resources management, employee engagement, corporate culture and employer branding.

Lee Kum Kee Sauce Group garners “Best Companies to Work for in Asia 2019” in Mainland China; Hong Kong, China; and Malaysia More

Mr. Derek Wu, Executive Vice President - Global Human Resources of Lee Kum Kee said, "Lee Kum Kee is honoured to receive the 'Best Companies to Work for in Asia 2019' in Hong Kong, China; Mainland China; and Malaysia. The awards have proven our achievements in creating strong corporate culture and caring for employees. Lee Kum Kee strives to promote the concept of 'Tri-Balance' and encourages our employees to have a balanced development among health, family and career. The awards are a manifestation of our commitment to implementing innovative initiatives to support our employees' development and our dedication to create an engaging and happy work-place. We will continue to dedicate unrivaled efforts to talent development and create a better working environment for our employees around the world."

"Best Companies to Work for in Asia" is organised by HR Asia Magazine, an authoritative publication for human resources professionals, with the aim of recognising companies with outstanding human resources performance. Judging criteria of the awards is based on Total Engagement Assessment Model, employees were directly invited to participate in a survey which covers aspects of corporate culture, learning and development and team cohesiveness to determine the winning companies.

About Lee Kum Kee

Lee Kum Kee was established in 1888 by its founder Mr. Lee Kum Sheung. With its sustainable development in 132 years, Lee Kum Kee has become a well-known household name of Chinese sauces and condiments, as well as an international brand and "a symbol of quality and trust". Spanning over three centuries, Lee Kum Kee is a globally renowned Chinese multinational corporation offering over 200 choices of sauces and condiments to over 100 countries and regions. Please visit www.LKK.com for further details.

Photo - https://photos.prnasia.com/prnh/20200108/2685625-1

SOURCE LEE KUM KEE