The year of the Rat is just around the corner. Instead of sending a typical Chinese New Year card or orange-filled hamper, here are five unique and quirky gift ideas to give your festive season some contemporary cool.

Another thing to note is that these limited edition goodies are designed by our local art designers, which is all the more reason to support local art.



loka made

If you are looking for more than just a simple greeting card or ang pow packet, loka made has a series of greeting cards to catch your fancy. How about a handmade pop-up festive adventures card that is bound to attract attention at the reunion dinner? While loka made's pop-up cards can be used as a table topper, the tri-fold greeting card series feature Chinese elements alongside drawings of Malaysia’s three main ethnicities celebrating the joyful festival together. Meanwhile, loka made’s bright red Triple Happiness 2020 Collection Box Set contains more festive choices, including ang pow packets, fridge magnets, stickers, greeting cards, couplets and a lucky bag. More details: www.lokamade.com.

Stickerrific's festive greeting card contains all the signature Chinese New Year essentials. Photo: Stickerrific

Stickerrific

A postcard is an inexpensive way to send greetings to someone. Stickerrific has released its own Chinese New Year postcard. This hand-drawn postcard incorporates Chinese lucky charms, including the fortune cat, lion dance, money frog, Chinese jade and more. Since Stickerrific is a local stationery store, you can also choose a wide variety of adorable stickers and washi tapes to add on to the postcard. More details: www.stickerrificstore.com.

Bingka's 'Ong Lai Mari-Mari 2020' pineapple designs add meaning to ‘good fortune’ all year round. Photo: Bingka

Bingka

This brand started out with original tea towel designs and pouches before its collaboration with Uniqlo. This year, Bingka unveils its 'Ong Lai Mari-Mari 2020' collection which includes a drawstring gift bag, pouch, tea towel and card pouch that are inked with adorable pineapple tart designs. The delicious pineapple tart is the main theme as the word "pineapple" literally translates to "fortune come” in the Hokkien dialect. Plus, Bingka provides customised design work for those who want to personalise their Chinese New Year gifts. More details: www.bingka.my.

Tinytype's floral pattern money packet range called Opulence and Gratitude can be used for any occasion. Photo: Tinytype

Tinytype

Instead of sticking to the traditional red envelopes, Tinytype has put a twist to its Opulence and Gratitude money packet range for this year’s Chinese New Year. Drawing inspiration from the baba nyonya community, the money packets feature bright pink and orange tones. The floral patterns add to the appeal. These money packets can also be used for other festive occasions like Hari Raya, Deepavali and birthdays. More details: mytinytype.com.

Salang Design's festive iron-on patches. Spot the CNY classics! Photo: Salang Design

Salang Design

Have you ever wanted to wear matching outfits with your family, but there was no particular reason or events to do so? Now, here is your chance! Salang Design has a range of T-shirts and tote bags which await some fun family customisation. Just add Salang Design's brand new eight Chinese New Year inspired iron-on patches to the equation. The cute patches include CNY regulars such as the pineapple tart, mahjong set, big head Buddha, ground nuts, lion dance and "pop pop" crackers. More details: salangdesign.com.