In the obtaining tension between the United States and Iran, this in effect was what happened to me. I grabbed at the opportunity to guest in Mentong Laurel’s television program over One Media solely for the purpose of getting one more chance of expounding my thoughts on the Middle East crisis. As I wrote in yesterday’s column, the worst is yet to come. Although both the US and Iran appeared to, using Trump’s terminology, stand down on the conflict with their respective controlled punches, so to speak, the confrontation is far from over.

For instance, the Iraqi government issued an order for US troops stationed in Iraq to leave the country. On the surface, this would indicate a triumph of Iran in its confrontation with the United States; such withdrawal of US troops from the Middle East has been one of the major demands of Iran in its effort to get eased up on the military and economic embargo the United States has been imposing on it over the years. Those troops began being stationed there at the downfall of Saddam Hussein, whom America’s Coalition of the Willing deposed and eventually executed for allegedly stockpiling weapons of mass destruction. Until today, no such weapon was found however and Saddam Hussein died for a crime he, evidently, never did.





But, at any rate, the Saddam Hussein episode merely served to depict America’s expertise at subterfuge and deception in advancing its hegemonic ends. It appears that though Iraq is serious about driving away US troops from the country, the US manifests a resolve not to go away as yet. The reason it advances, according to Iraqi President Adil Abdul-Mahdi, is that it must get 50 percent of Iraq’s oil reserves as “reimbursement” for expenses US incurred in the rehabilitation of Iraq, which was damaged as a consequence of its war with the Coalition of the Willing.”

In the first place, it was the US and its cohorts who ravaged Iraq, they are the ones who must pay for Iraq’s destruction. Why must Iraq be the one to pay for such rehabilitation?

Shades of the devastation Gen. Douglas MacArthur did of Manila when the allies returned for the so-called liberation of the Philippines. As a result of MacArthur’s shelling of the city, Manila, otherwise untouched by the destructions of war until that MacArthur return, became the most ravaged city in World War 2 next to Warsaw, Poland. In exchange for the measly $800 million cost of repairing what she destroyed, America demanded from the Philippines the Parity Amendments to the Philippine Constitution whereby Americans have equal rights as Filipinos in the exploitation and development of the country’s natural resources.

As America has never budged from its doctrine of “America for the Americans,” so have her war designs never changed patterns. It gets itself attacked first, before launching a truly devastating counter-attack. I made illustration of this truism in my column yesterday. After being targeted by 20 missiles of Iran, America’s next round of attacks could be more devastating.

What could those attacks be?

Whatever, one thing is certain. The worst is yet to come. A headline of one of yesterday’s papers had Pope Francis enjoining US and Iran to confine themselves to dialogue and restraint. That should drive home the fact that as far as the US is concerned, nothing is over until it is over.

This was my concern when I agreed to join the discussion at the One Media Forum, over GSAT Channel 1.

But, lo! Who should I sit with but a ravishingly pretty young woman, answering to the call of Jhoanna Pia Esquivias. Actually, I met the girl days ago, at Mentong’s New Year bash at his wife’s Mama Rosa Restaurant. International Decision Support Initiative Executive Director Austin Ong had introduced her to me and we barely had five minutes to exchange niceties. But in such fleeting moment, she struck me as somebody who I needed for a video documentary I was currently preparing to make. The audition I did of her subsequently was run of the mill, but in the One Media Forum, she was a revelation. She spoke intelligently, and on the US-Iran confrontation, she was everything a pro, both as a political and trade analyst. This seems to come as a matter of course for her, she being a graduate of political science at the University of the Philippines.

But Jhoanna is more. She is newly returned from China where she took up her masters in International Relations in Beijing, staying there for four years. No wonder that she seems very authoritative on Chinese concerns. So for the video project I was preparing to do, Jhoanna fitted the part of the host to a T.

On the Middle East situation, what long-lasting solution Jhoanna sees is not armed method, not political approach, but a determined push of President Xi’s Belt and Road Initiative. And she sought to stress that BRI is not just about infrastructure; it’s about people’s livelihood.

She cites the gains already attained by China in pushing this program worldwide.

I cringed rather from some embarrassed feeling, gaping in awe. Here was a girl, just in her early twenties, already a master in world affairs, but here were I, in my late seventies still grappling with how to achieve everlasting world prosperity and peace.

I definitely got one over her though. I am a film director. I asked if she would be my leading lady in a forthcoming film. She said yes.

And that’s how coming to the forum aiming for the moon, I hit a star.