Around 7000 passengers and crew, including reports of 27 Australians, have been held on a crowded cruise ship after fears two Chinese passengers were feared to have the deadly coronavirus, Italy’s health ministry says.

The people on board were under lockdown aboard the Costa Smeralda at a port near Rome after one of the passengers, a 54-year-old woman from Macau, came down with a fever and breathing problems.

The woman and her husband were placed in solitary confinement and samples were sent off to a nearby lab for testing. Meanwhile, all other passengers were told they could not leave the ship.

media_camera The Costa Smeralda.

media_camera The Costa Smeralda has travelled through Spain.

The ship is currently docked in the port of Civitavecchia, near Rome, near where the Costa Concordia disaster occurred in 2012. It is carrying 6000 tourists and another 1000 members of crew.

Preliminary tests on the pair suggested they were not carrying the virus, the ministry of health said, but it was not immediately clear whether passengers would be allowed to leave the vessel before final results were confirmed.

The Lazzaro Spallanzani national institute for infectious diseases, which is examining the samples, told the AFP news agency the definitive results could take up to 48 hours.

AUSSIES ON BOARD CRUISE SHIP

In a statement sent to news.com.au, 27 Australians are confirmed to be on board the cruise ship.

“There are 27 Australians on board,” a spokesperson confirmed.

“The situation on the ship, which is docked in Civitavecchia, has been under constant control and the crew have provided the best possible assistance.

“Last night our medical team promptly identified a suspected fever case in a 54-year-old woman, just a few hours before the ship’s arrival in Civitavecchia.

“As soon as the case was discovered, the required precautionary procedures were immediately taken. The relevant Authorities were informed and, on arrival of the ship in the port of Civitavecchia they carried out all the checks required.”

The spokesperson said the ship will skip the port of La Spezia, and will remain docked at Civitavecchia until Friday local time before leaving for Savona and resuming its regular cruise program.

media_camera 27 Australians are on board the ship. Picture: Filippo MONTEFORTE / AFP.

media_camera Dozens of Australians are apparently on the cruise ship. Picture: AP Photo/Andrew Medichini.

So far, nine people have contracted the virus after travelling to Australia from central China – including four in NSW, three in Victoria and two in Queensland.

The latest victim to contract the virus is a 42-year-old Chinese woman who travelled from Wuhan to the Gold Coast via Melbourne on board a Tiger Air flight. The woman is currently in isolation in a Gold Coast hospital.

‘COUPLE’S CABIN ISOLATED’

Earlier, Costa Cruises confirmed the ship was in lockdown. It said a 54-year old woman from Macau “was placed in solitary confinement in the on-board hospital last night with her travel companion”, and was following instructions from the health ministry.

The Costa Smeralda, the company’s flagship and the fifth-largest cruise ship in the world, “came from Palma de Mallorca and is currently engaged in one-week cruises in the western Mediterranean,” it said.

The couple flew in to Milan from Hong Kong on January 25, before getting on the cruise, according to Italian media reports.

Some 750 other Chinese passengers on-board the ship all appeared to be in good health, media reports said.

“The couple’s cabin has been isolated and they are in with the doctors,” an unnamed passenger was quoted as telling ANSA news agency.

“We’re a bit worried of course. No-one is getting on or off the ship apart from the doctors. This holiday risks ending in a nightmare”.

media_camera The Costa Smeralda cruise ship is docked in the Civitavecchia port near Rome. Picture: AP/Andrew Medichini

media_camera Passengers were told they could not leave the ship. Picture: AP Photo/Andrew Medichini

PASSENGERS WAIT FOR INFORMATION

Social media posts from people purporting to be on the Costa Smeralda said scheduled excursions to Rome had been cancelled and passengers had been left in the dark for hours.

“Waiting since 8:30 this morning to find out who, why, how,” one person wrote on Twitter.

“Hopefully it is not this virus because on a boat the spread can be fast. But if we had information, it would be better,” she added.

“The most annoying for us is the cancellation of the excursion from Rome and the lack of communication.”

“People are really very calm but there are some nervous or anxious people, not because of the coronavirus, but because they don’t know when they can leave,” another person tweeted.

Photos showed bored passengers waiting in the ship’s bars, cafes and lounges.

Esta es la normalidad que vivimos a bordo.Nos han informado a las 14 q había alguien enfermo a bordo.Q hasta esta noche no sabremos los resultados.Esa s la única información q ha dado @costacruceros a bordo dl #CostaSmeralda xlomenos estamos tranquilos,xo q falta d comunicación! pic.twitter.com/ZrOj3H33Mw — Marina Guerrero (@Xaideta) January 30, 2020

Todo normal a bordo del #costasmeralda a la espera de pruebas de #coronavirus a pasajeros de origen asiático. Barco bloqueado en #civitavecchia pic.twitter.com/f2WXs5RPZf — Maria Cartagena (@MariaCartagen) January 30, 2020

The luxury, 185000-tonne cruise liner, which is Costa’s first ‘green ship’ powered by liquefied natural gas, contains 11 restaurants, eight bars, four swimming pools, a theatre and casino.

It is next due to visit La Spezia, on Italy’s northwest coast, and Savona, a seaport west of Genoa.

media_camera Photos showed bored passengers waiting in bars and communal areas. Picture: Twitter/@Filippo64416163 media_camera The luxury ship is scheduled to visit two more ports. Picture: Twitter/@Filippo64416163

media_camera Passengers spotted authorities standing outside the ship. Picture: Twitter/@Filippo64416163

An initial plan to disembark some 1,140 passengers who had been due to leave the ship on Thursday morning was put on hold after Civitavecchia mayor Ernesto Tedesco protested.

“Are you mad? Who gave you the order to disembark? I’ll take you all to court,” he shouted at officials after racing to the port in his Fiat 500, according to the Repubblica daily.

Italian Prime Minister, Giuseppe Conte, said the government was ready to take further steps if necessary.

“We’re not concerned, but we are absolutely vigilant and cautious in facing this prospect,” he told reporters during a trip to Bulgaria.

media_camera Passengers complained of being kept in the dark for hours. Picture: AP/Andrew Medichini

media_camera The virus test results came back on Thursday afternoon (Italy time). Picture: AP/Andrew Medichini

China reported its biggest single-day jump in novel coronavirus deaths on Thursday, as global fears deepened with at least 15 countries confirming infections.

The World Health Organisation, which initially downplayed a disease that has now killed 170 in China, was preparing to meet Thursday to decide whether to declare it a global emergency.

News.com.au has contacted Costa cruise lines for comment.

-With wires

Originally published as Aussies in cruise ship ’flu’ nightmare