National File

February 21, 2020

A 1999 report has recently resurfaced that claims billionaire former New York mayor and current presidential candidate Michael Bloomberg boasted of getting his “tall, busty, and blonde” teen daughter dates with potential suitors “in every city in China.”

The New York billionaire is also quoted as saying, “What’s a 16-year-old going to do on a business trip?”

The report comes from Wired magazine, which quoted Bloomberg, 78, as making the remarks to a table of Boston College graduates before demanding that the anecdote be kept “off the record.”

Wired.com writer David S. Bennahum wrote in 1999:

“My daughter is tall and busty and blonde,” Michael Bloomberg is telling a table of Boston College graduates. “We went to China together. And what’s a 16-year-old going to do on a business trip?” He pops another carefully buttered piece of bread in his mouth. “So I got her dates in every city in China.” Remembering that I’m also at the table, he glares in my direction. “That’s off the record!” he barks. It’s typical Mike Bloomberg, wanting to have it both ways: imperious man of the people, coarse billionaire, earthy business leader, accessible control freak.

The dates and ages referenced in the Wired piece indicate Bloomberg would have been talking about his then-sixteen-year-old daughter Georgina.

Earlier this week, National File’s Patrick Howley reported that Bloomberg was featured in the infamous “little black book” of the late pedophilic information broker Jeffrey Epstein:

Democrat presidential candidate and former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg appears in the late pedophile and accused child trafficker Jeffrey Epstein’s little black book of contacts. Bloomberg appears on page six of the address book maintained by Epstein’s late former butler (READ THE REDACTED LITTLE BLACK BOOK HERE).

Bloomberg’s ties to China were on covered on the Fox News “Tucker Carlson Tonight” television program on Monday.

.@TuckerCarlson exactly correct on #China – and @MikeBloomberg, the biggest China apologist of any elected official in America https://t.co/s2oQ10LoQu — Josh Hawley (@HawleyMO) February 19, 2020

Carlson’s segment featured video of Bloomberg admitting that his news publication Bloomberg.com censors its own reporting to cater to Chinese information suppression policies.

This article was posted: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 6:44 am

Print this page.

Infowars.com Videos:

Comment on this article