The Australian dollar has plunged to lowest point in more than a decade as the coronavirus outbreak sparked fears of a major economic slowdown in China.

The currency sunk to 66.71 US cents late on Monday morning, the weakest it had been since March 2009 at the height of the global financial crisis, which potentially makes overseas holidays and imports more expensive.

ANZ head of foreign exchange Daniel Been said the coronavirus outbreak had sparked fears about economic growth slowing in China, Australia's biggest trading partner.

The Australian dollar has plunged to lowest point in more than a decade as the coronavirus outbreak sparked fears of a major economic slowdown in China. Pictured: Australians in Darwin who have been evacuated from Wuhan

'Uncertainly about Chinese growth is always going to drive uncertainty around risk appetite,' he told Daily Mail Australia on Monday.

'The second biggest economy in the world looking less than certain is never going to be positive for markets.'

A lockdown in the Chinese city of Wuhan is also sparking concerns about how a slowdown in China will affect Australia in the March quarter.

Weaker economic activity in China has the potential to diminish demand for Australian commodities like coal and iron ore.

'The shuttering of manufacturing and other facilities in China, as they impose the lockdowns on cities, is slowing activity and the questions about how long that will take are going to continue to cast a shadow,' Mr Been said.

The currency sunk to 66.71 US cents on Monday morning, the weakest it had been since March 2009 at the height of the global financial crisis, which potentially makes overseas holidays and imports more expensive. Pictured: Australian evacuted from Wuhan arriving at Darwin's Inpex plant

The Australian dollar's plunge occurred after Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Philip Lowe told a parliamentary hearing on Friday the coronavirus was likely to be worse for the Australian economy than the SARS outbreak in China 16 years ago.

Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Philip Lowe told a parliamentary hearing on Friday the coronavirus was likely to be worse for the Australian economy than the SARS outbreak in China 16 years ago

'It is quite likely that the international spillovers will be larger than they were back in 2003 with SARS,' he said.

'Much will depend on the success of the various efforts to control the virus.

'Like everyone around the world, we are watching developments very carefully.'

So far, 811 people in China have died from coronavirus, surpassing the SARS death toll.

Since the outbreak was confirmed in late January, 15 Australians have been diagnosed with the respiratory disease.

Up to 100 Australians still remain in Wuhan after 266 'clinically well' evacuees arrived in Darwin on a chartered Qantas flight on Sunday.

Another 243 Australians who were on the first chartered flight from Wuhan are almost halfway through a 14-day quarantine isolation on Christmas Island after landing on Tuesday.