TESTS on two patients in Scotland suspected of having the deadly coronavirus have come back negative, the chief medical officer has said.

The remaining three Scottish patients are still awaiting their results.

Last night, there are no confirmed cases of the infection in the UK, with all 14 test results so far coming back negative, but yesterday morning, the chief medical officer for England said there was a “fair chance” the disease would soon be found. However, he insisted, the UK was ready.

The outbreak originated in China

Health officials are currently trying to trace around 2000 people who have flown to Britain from the Wuhan area in China where the virus is believed to have originated.

Health Protection Scotland is advising returning travellers who become unwell within a fortnight from a sore throat, cough or breathing difficulties to call their GP or NHS 24.

READ MORE: At a time of global coronavirus crisis, the UK's focus is shameful

Scotland’s chief medical officer, Catherine Calderwood, said: “Scotland is well prepared for these types of outbreaks – we have a proven track record of dealing with challenging health issues and the UK was one of the first countries in the world to develop a test for the new virus.

“I am being kept fully informed about the precautionary steps being taken, including timely updates on the patients who are currently being tested.”

Speaking after a meeting of the UK Government’s Cobra emergency committee in Whitehall, Calderwood’s counterpart in England, Professor Chris Whitty, said: “I am working closely with the other UK chief medical officers.

“We all agree that the risk to the UK public remains low, but there may well be cases in the UK at some stage.

“We have tried and tested measures in place to respond. The UK is well prepared for these types of incidents, with excellent readiness against infectious diseases.

“We have global experts monitoring the situation around the clock and have a strong track record of managing new forms of infectious disease.

“The UK has access to some of the best infectious disease and public health experts in the world. A public health hub will be set up in Heathrow from today. This consists of clinicians and other public health officials, in addition to existing port health measures.”

In an earlier interview, Whitty said: “We think there’s a fair chance we may get some cases over time.

READ MORE: What is coronavirus and could it affect Scotland?

“Of course, this depends on whether this continues for a long time, or whether this turns out to be something which is brought under control relatively quickly.”

In China, the official death toll has risen to 26, with more than 830 confirmed cases.

The city of Wuhan is rapidly building a new 1000-bed hospital to treat victims. State-owned news outlet Changjiang Daily said it could be ready by as soon February 3.

The project will “solve the shortage of existing medical resources” and would be “built fast [and] not cost much ... because it will be prefabricated buildings”, the outlet said.

Reuters reported that hospitals in Wuhan are struggling to cope due to medical shortages.

Almost 30 million people and 10 cities in China are now facing travel restrictions.

Symptoms of coronavirus include fever, sneezing, coughing and shortness of breath.

On Thursday, the World Health Organisation said it was “too early” to declare an international public health emergency over the outbreak “given its restrictive and binary nature”.

Other cases have been reported in countries including Japan, South Korea, Singapore, Thailand, the US and Vietnam.

China was getting ready to mark the first day of the Lunar New Year today, celebrating the year of the Rat.

However, festivities in many Chinese cities have been called off due to the outbreak.

Travel restrictions now cover 13 cities affecting more than 36 million people.

Wuhan is effectively on lockdown. All bus, metro and ferry services have been suspended, and all outbound planes and trains cancelled.

Residents have been advised not to leave.

Disneyland Shanghai and parts of the Great Wall of China have been closed to visitors.

The first confirmed cases of coronavirus were in people who had visited a food market which sells live farmed and wild animals, has since been closed and disinfected.

Scientists in China have published detailed information, in the Lancet medical journal, on the first cases in the country.

It includes information on a child with no outward symptoms, but a clear coronavirus infection in their lungs.