BEIJING: Nearly 500 Indians in Hubei , the Chinese province most affected by the coronavirus , are preparing for evacuation and transportation to India on Friday. They have been informed by the Indian embassy in Beijing to stay prepared for evacuation on Friday evening.In messages sent through a WhatsApp group, the Indian embassy said the Indians in Hubei, including students, will be flown to India on two different flights. A list of 315 passengers who will be on the first flight has also been circulated.Each of them will have signed a consent note saying that they are prepared to follow government instructions and undergo 14 days of quarantine on reaching India.“I am aware that by availing this option I will have to undergo a mandatory 14 days’ quarantine on arrival in India,” the undertaking prepared by the embassy said. The undertaking form has been circulated by the embassy on the WhatsApp group named “Emb-Hubei Indians Grp No. 2”.The embassy also cautioned Indians that the arrangements being made are still tentative. “Please note that these details are tentative and are being shared with you so that you are adequately prepared,” it said.However, the embassy did not disclose its plans to the media or in any of its regular tweets. It is believed that two chartered Indian Airlines aircraft will be used to evacuate them from Wuhan airport. The US and Japan have already evacuated their citizens from Wuhan while other countries are making preparations.The Indians in Wuhan, including nearly 300 students, have not been told which city in India they will be taken to. There is some discussion about keeping them in isolation at an Air Force facility in India to avoid mingling and possible transmission in India.Those being evacuated will also give an undertaking that they are aware of the possibility of Chinese authorities refusing permission to fly.In another message sent through the WhatsApp group, the embassy said, “We are preparing for air evacuation from Wuhan tomorrow in the evening. This flight will carry those Indian nationals who are in and around Wuhan and have conveyed consent for their evacuation. There will be another flight subsequently which will carry those who are from other parts of Hubei province.”It added, “We would request your understanding and cooperation in this regard. Our intention is to ensure that all those who have expressed consent to avail of this facility are safely returned to India. We will shortly update you and send further instructions in this regard.”