A look at some of today’s top headlines.

Chris Cillizza’s winners and losers from the Iowa debate The top six candidates debated Tuesday night in Iowa, the last chance for them to stand beside their rivals before Iowa voters kick off the nomination fight in 20 days’ time.

Warren makes the case a woman has the best chance to beat Trump Sen. Elizabeth Warren made a forceful case in Tuesday night’s debate that a woman can win the White House, tackling the unpopular question that has loomed over the presidential race since Donald Trump defeated Hillary Clinton since 2016 — buttressing her argument by pointing to the electoral losses of the men standing alongside her on stage.

‘Let them drink beer’: The town with no water in Australia’s big drought It’s 8 p.m. at the Royal Hotel in Murrurundi and the mercury is hovering at around 42 degrees Celsius (107F). After a sweltering day, the locals are gathering at their favorite watering hole — in a town that has no water.

Desolate images from Taal Volcano show horses and cows buried in ash Images from the erupting Taal Volcano in the Philippines show a desolate landscape of destroyed houses and snapped trees covered in a thick layer of heavy ash. Half-buried bodies of horses and cows that could not escape the island lay in black sludge or floating in the surrounding lake.

China’s government poses a ‘global threat to human rights,’ report finds The Chinese government increasingly poses a “global threat to human rights,” according to NGO Human Rights Watch.

Toyota is recalling nearly 700,000 vehicles because of issues with the fuel pumps If you drive a Toyota, you might want to read on.

A Chinese traveler was caught trying to smuggle 200 live scorpions out of Sri Lanka (CNN) – A unnamed Chinese traveler was caught red-handed when he attempted to smuggle 200 live scorpions out of Sri Lanka on Monday. The 30-year-old man was scheduled to fly to Guangzhou in southern China from Colombo’s Bandaranaike International Airport when authorities detected the live scorpions in his checked-in luggage, Sri Lanka Customs spokesman Sunil Jayarathna told CNN.

Billie Eilish wrote and performed the new James Bond theme song. She’s the youngest artist to do so Billie Eilish can add another cool stat to her growing accolades: the youngest artist in history to write and record a James Bond theme song.

The mystery over who’s been leaving £2,000 cash bundles in a UK village has been solved For years, residents of a small UK village were left baffled as to why bundles of cash, usually totaling £2,000 ($2,598) each, were being left on their streets. Now, the mystery has finally been solved — and two good Samaritans were behind the kind gestures.

Leading Democrats feud over ‘woman president’ There have been seven official Democratic debates but this one had a real sense of urgency – in less than three weeks the candidates will face their first test. The primary season begins on 3 February with the Iowa caucuses, when the Democratic voters in this state will pick who they want to take on Donald Trump in November.

Iran arrests person behind video of plane downing Iran says it has arrested the person who filmed the footage showing a Ukrainian passenger plane being shot down by a missile. It is believed the person being detained will face charges related to national security. Flight PS752 was brought down after it took off from Tehran on Wednesday, killing all 176 people on board.

Plane dumps fuel over school in emergency landing A passenger plane has dumped fuel over a school playground as it made an emergency landing at Los Angeles International Airport. At least 17 children and several adults are being treated for skin irritation and breathing problems. Fuel may be dumped in emergencies landings, but only over designated areas and at a high altitude, aviation rules stipulate.

Manchester United scrap Gulf region training camp plans amid rising tensions Manchester United have scrapped plans for a training camp in the Gulf region during next month’s winter break because of security concerns. United do not play for 16 days between Premier League ties against Wolves on 1 February and at Chelsea on 17 February.

Africa Live: Lesotho’s first lady wanted by police – BBC News A mass grave has been opened to the public in Burundi’s main city, Bujumbura, believed to contain the remains of hundreds of people killed in clashes following the assassination of President Melchior Ndadaye. The killing of Mr Ndadaye, the country’s first elected Hutu president, triggered a brutal ethnic civil war in 1993 between the minority Tutsi-dominated army and mainly Hutu rebel groups.

Google will ‘phase out’ cookies in Chrome – just not anytime soon Google says it will “phase out” one of the main tools that allows companies to track you across the web. The company plans to eliminate support for third-party cookies in Chrome over the next two years.

Verizon launches privacy-oriented search engine OneSearch The internet has a brand new privacy-first search engine, this one courtesy of Verizon. On Tuesday, Verizon Media launched a search engine called OneSearch, which works on both desktop and mobile. The draw over its competitors is that OneSearch keep users’ privacy in mind in ways that other leaders in the search market do not.

Trump stumbles into encryption debate, tells Apple to unlock iPhones Donald Trump has some words for his old pal, Tim Apple. The President of the United States once again lost his cool Tuesday afternoon, tweeting that Apple must assist authorities in their efforts to unlock iPhones. In other words, Trump finally got on the encryption-backdoor train.

Netflix renews ‘You’ for third season. What we want to see next. Editors independently select all products and services featured here. If you buy something through our links, we may receive a commission. Welcome back, you. Netflix renewed romantic (?!) thriller for a third season Tuesday morning, and though we’ll have to wait the better part of a year to reunite with Joe Goldberg, Mayor of Murderville, we’re already thinking about our Season 3 wish list.

Microsoft just killed support for Windows 7 Microsoft will no longer support Windows 7, one of the company’s most successful products, starting Tuesday. That means Microsoft will no longer patch Windows 7 bugs or offer technical assistance for the OS. And it also means that you should not be running Windows 7 anymore, period.