CLOSE Regeneron scientists create antibodies to treat people exposed to the novel coronavirus outbreak that originated in China, in Tarrytown, New York Feb. 10, 2020. The process involves injecting pseudo-coronavirus into genetically altered mice that produce human-like antibodies. Rockland/Westchester Journal News

There are 26 people in Westchester County being quarantined after returning from recent travel to areas affected by the coronavirus outbreak in China, authorities said Tuesday.

None of the Westchester residents, who are being voluntarily quarantined mostly in their homes, have shown symptoms of the coronavirus, called COVID-19, according to Dr. Sherlita Amler, county health commissioner.

"These people are not ill, but we still have to monitor them," Amler said Tuesday, during a news conference.

Similar public-health quarantines of travelers are underway in other communities statewide and across the country. The people will be monitored by county health officials for the 14 days since they departed from the locations affected by coronavirus, Amler said.

Authorities declined to disclose the locations of the people being quarantined in Westchester, citing privacy concerns.

A Centers for Disease Control representative is seen aboard a 737 cargo plane evacuating passengers who were quarantined on a cruise ship in Japan. (Photo: Courtesy of Sommer Gunia)

The reports come as Chinese officials released data Tuesday indicating the new virus could be 20 times more lethal than the flu.

The global coronavirus death toll hit 1,875, with all but a handful of the fatalities in China. Total infections rose Tuesday to more than 73,000, all but a few hundred in China. There had been 29 confirmed cases of coronavirus in the U.S.

New York state has seen 25 total cases of potential coroanvirus return negative test results, including 19 outside of New York City, according to the latest state data released Tuesday. There were no pending cases being tested.

Amler noted that the 26 people being monitored in Westchester County would only be tested if they started to show symptoms. Similarly, Monroe County last week announced it was monitoring six asymptomatic travelers for coronavirus.

Common signs of the infection include fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. If it worsens, it can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure or even death.

More: Cruise ship stranded at sea by coronavirus, carrying Greenburgh couple comes to rest in Cambodia

More: NY slammed with record-high influenza cases while all eyes on coronavirus

More: How NY scientists are using mice as the secret weapon against the outbreak

The Westchester travelers being quarantined passed through screening protocols of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which is overseeing questioning and other screening at airports and other entry points when Americans return from China and other countries affected by the outbreak.

Public-health officials are communicating regularly with the Westchester people in quarantine, including through video conferencing via smartphones. If any of them start showing signs of illness and require transport to a medical facility, the county public safety and emergency services agencies would oversee the transport, Amler said.

A 737 cargo plane is used to transport Diamond Princess cruise passengers from Japan to Texas. Behind the passenger seats is the white plastic wall separating the passenger who was recently diagnosed with the coronavirus. (Photo: Courtesy of Sommer Gunia)

County Executive George Latimer described the developments in Westchester as a small element of a worldwide public-health concern. He also sought to discourage people from spreading or listening to rumors and misinformation about coronavirus, particularly via social media.

Latimer said the main concerns include "the spread of the virus" and "the spread of the virus of fear and unnecessary panic."

"In moments like this we need to be mature and sober in the way we approach these things," he said, adding the county will be regularly updating the public about the situation.

Latest on coronavirus death toll, Americans returning from cruise ships

Vincenzo Russo, a research and development associate, monitors the health of cells being used in effort to create antibodies to treat people exposed to the novel coronavirus outbreak that originated in China, at Regeneron in Tarrytown, New York Feb. 10, 2020. The process involves injecting pseudo-coronavirus into genetically altered mice that produce human-like antibodies. (Photo: Tania Savayan/The Journal News)

The Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention put the overall death rate for the coronavirus at 2.3%. This season's flu death rate in the U.S. thus far is about 0.1%, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Still, the coronavirus death rate is far below that of severe acute respiratory syndrome – SARS – a coronavirus that swept across China almost two decades ago. The SARS death rate was almost 10%, although fewer than 10,000 SARS cases were ever confirmed.

A top health official at the National Institutes of Health this week also acknowledged that the quarantine aboard the coronavirus-infected Diamond Princess Cruises ship failed, while discussing the decision to evacuate hundreds of American passengers – 14 of whom tested positive for the virus.

John Bacon and David Oliver, USA TODAY, contributed to this report

Support local journalism

We cover the stories from the New York State Capitol and across New York that matter most to you and your family. Please consider supporting our efforts with a subscription to the New York publication nearest you. Check out the latest offer.

David Robinson is the state health care reporter for the USA TODAY Network New York. He can be reached at drobinson@gannett.com and followed on Twitter: @DrobinsonLoHud

Read or Share this story: https://www.lohud.com/story/news/health/2020/02/18/china-coronavirus-outbreak-prompts-quarantine-26-westchester/4797489002/