I HAVE no love lost for Sen. Ronald “Bato” dela Rosa but what the United States government has done to him — banning him from setting foot on American soil on account of his part in the country’s war on drugs — is an insult to our government and should be reciprocated in kind.

Henceforth, the government should require every US citizen who comes to the country to apply for a visa.





And since the cancellation of Bato’s visa clearly is a slap on our government, President Digong should give the US the middle finger on Uncle Sam’s invitation for him to attend the special summit in Washington with other leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean).

The US decision to revoke Senator dela Rosa’s 10-year visa on account of the war on drugs is a blatant interference in the country’s internal affairs.

No matter what you think of dela Rosa — a clown in an august body, as far as I’m concerned — he’s a senator of the republic and in canceling his visa, the US also insulted the Philippines.

We should stand up to the bullying of Uncle Sam who should be reminded that we are no longer his colony, but already a sovereign nation.

The President should ignore the advice of Sen. Panfilo Lacson, chairman of the Senate committee on Defense and Security, that his attendance at the US summit could be helpful for the country.

“The President may be well advised to attend the US summit, the Philippines being a prominent and senior member in the Southeast Asian region,” Lacson said.

But what if the President is held in detention in the US and tried for “crimes against humanity” on account of thousands of drug suspects killed under his watch?

The US did not have any qualms in invading the tiny island of Grenada 1983 just because the lives of a few of its citizens were in danger there during a coup.

It did not also have any qualms in invading Panama to arrest President Manuel Noriega in 1989 for alleged drug trafficking.

Those things the US did despite condemnation from the world community then.

How can we tell that the invitation to attend the US summit isn’t just a ruse to detain him so that the Yellows could take over the government?

We must remember that most Americans do not look kindly on our President who cursed their former president, Barack Obama, for interfering in our internal affairs.

If President Digong were held in custody in the US, as it did ousted President Ferdinand Marcos in the wake of the fake EDSA People Power revolution, many Americans would receive the news with glee.

To most Americans, our country’s war on drugs stinks even though their current president, Donald Trump, thinks that Digong is doing the right thing.

Also, most Americans look askance at President Duterte’s pivot to China, which is having a current trade war with the US.

The Donald, who invited his counterpart Digong to attend the US summit, is a controversial leader; most Americans hate him.

Even the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has no respect for Trump who, it thinks, played around with the Russians during the 2016 US presidential campaign.

So, even if Trump says that our President was in the US upon his invitation, you think the FBI and other agencies would listen to him?

Remember, Trump is preoccupied with his impeachment trial and could probably care less if President Digong were to be arrested in the US.

* * *

President Digong’s war on drugs accounts for his phenomenal very high rating among the Filipino people.

The reputable Social Weather Station (SWS), in its December survey, found that the President received 82 percent net satisfaction rating.

The 82 percent rating is considered “excellent” by SWS standards. The other SWS ratings are “very good” (+50 and above); “good” (+30 to +49); “moderate” (+10 to +29); “neutral” (+9 to -9); “poor” (-10 to -29); “bad” (-30 to -49); “very bad” (-50 to 69); “execrable” (-70 and below).

If Mr. Duterte were a college student, he would be considered as a candidate for magna cum laude or summa cum laude honors.

No other presidents before Mr. Duterte has achieved that high rating two years before their terms expired.

The survey ratings of his predecessors went down toward the end of their terms.

However, the President should not rest on his laurels, as people are fickle; their minds can easily change.

For the President to maintain his high ratings he should get rid of his corrupt Cabinet members and non-performing bureaucrats.

Also, some of his decisions lately have been less than remarkable as when he appointed the lackluster Archie Gamboa as Philippine National Police chief vice the discredited Oscar Albayalde.

Gamboa is an armchair general.

A graduate of the Philippine Military Academy Class 1986, he has spent most of his career in the police service doing office or desk jobs.

The President was apparently ill-advised in choosing Gamboa over the more popular and hard-nosed Guillermo Lorenzo Eleazar.