The Trump administration has dropped its formal designation of China as a currency manipulator, signaling improved relations between the two countries just days before officials are set to sign a preliminary trade deal.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Monday that the phase one U.S.-China trade agreement set to be signed on Wednesday includes commitments on currency practices and to refrain from competitive devaluation — pledges that led the administration to remove the label it put in place less than six months ago.

“China has made enforceable commitments to refrain from competitive devaluation, while promoting transparency and accountability,” Mnuchin said in a statement, which was released alongside a biannual report on foreign exchange practices of major trading partners.

The decision to drop China’s currency manipulator label marks a reversal from August, when Mnuchin took the rare step of issuing the formal designation against China at a moment when trade relations between the two countries were spiraling downward. That was the first time any administration had taken that step in nearly 30 years.

Treasury defended that decision in its report, saying that Beijing over the summer “took concrete steps to devalue” its currency “to gain unfair competitive advantage in international trade.”

But commitments in the phase one deal, including an agreement to make some information related to exchange rates public, led Treasury to remove the designation, the report says. The deal also promises $200 billion in Chinese purchases over two years.

While text of the agreement has yet to be released, China is expected to agree to institute new currency disciplines as part of it. U.S. officials have said the currency rules will be enforceable, meaning any violations could be punished with tariffs.

The long-delayed report offers the first detailed explanation of Treasury's decision last year to add the currency manipulator label, which is largely symbolic but viewed as a sort of public shaming. Treasury had been expected to release its biannual report by mid-October, but it was held without explanation until Monday — the same day China's delegation arrived in Washington in advance of the deal signing.

Previous administrations had refrained from imposing the formal designation, arguing that it was better to work with other countries to put diplomatic pressure on Beijing. President Donald Trump, despite campaign pledges in 2016 to label China a currency manipulator as soon as he entered the White House, had also held off for the first five currency reports issued under his administration.

Mnuchin had suggested in October that the currency manipulator label could be lifted if the U.S. and China sign a deal. “Assuming we close the agreement and we have the assurances,” he said at the time, “that will be a big step in the right direction for our evaluation.”

Still, the currency decision Monday sparked some criticism from lawmakers on both sides of the aisle, who accused Trump of giving in to Chinese President Xi Jinping without getting much in return.

“Unfortunately, President Trump would rather cave to President Xi than stay tough on China,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a statement. “When it comes to the president’s stance on China, Americans are getting a lot of show and very little results.”

Senate Minority Leader Sen. Chuck Schumer of N.Y., walks on Capitol Hill in Washington, Friday, Jan. 3, 2020. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) More