SEN. Panfilo Lacson on Thursday said an indefinite travel ban to the United States imposed on all members of the Cabinet could have adverse consequences on the Philippine economy and security.

The senator stressed this following President Rodrigo Duterte’s order banning Cabinet members from traveling to the US following the cancelation of the visa of Sen. Ronald “Bato” dela Rosa, an ally in his war on drugs.

READ: Duterte bars Cabinet from going to US





The chairman of the Senate Committee on National Security and Defense also expressed concern “the many employed Filipino immigrants there, especially if the US retaliates to the recent tirades of President Duterte.”

He noted that the Philippines is exporting at least $10 billion worth of goods annually to the US, and accounts for 52 percent of the total US military support and assistance to the entire Asia-Pacific region.

“Considering all these, I hope some of the Cabinet members will have the courage and sensibility to speak to the President to reconsider,” Lacson said in a text message.

Dela Rosa said Cabinet officials have the option to resign if they would not support Duterte’s order banning US travel for government officials.

“Nasa kanila na ‘yan (It’s up to them). Once they join this government, it is presumed that they are ready to sink or swim with this government. If they are not ready to sink then they have an option to quit swimming with this government,” dela Rosa said.

Sen. Francis Pangilinan said that Malacanang should “bar Chinese nationals from coronavirus cities from entering the Philippines” instead of barring Cabinet officials from going to the US.

“Unahin dapat ang kaligtasan ng taumbayan hindi ang interes ng iilan sa pagkansela ng isang visa (The safety of the people must be prioritized [by the Palace] and not the interest of some sector on the cancelation of one’s visa),” Pangilinan said.

Sought for reaction on Duterte’s move, Senate President Vicente Sotto 3rd said, “It’s a sign of his displeasure.”

“He is the chief architect of our foreign policy. The buck stops with him,” Sotto said. BERNADETTE E. TAMAYO