© Carla K. Johnson / Associated Press Satish Pillai, right, a medical officer for the CDC, speaks Tuesday Jan. 21, 2020, at a news conference in Shoreline, Wash., following the announcement that a man in Washington state is the first known person in the United States to catch a new type of coronavirus that officials believe originated in China. Looking on are Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, second from left, and John Wiesman,, left, Washington state Secretary of Health.

Five people in the United States — two in Southern California, one in Washington state, one in Illinois and one in Arizona — have been diagnosed with a new respiratory coronavirus as a growing outbreak in China has left 56 people dead and sickened at least 1,975.

While there have been no cases confirmed in the Bay Area, health officials in Alameda County were testing fewer than 10 people for the potentially deadly illness.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed a traveler from the Chinese city of Wuhan tested positive for the virus, the Orange County Health Care Agency announced late Saturday. The patient is in isolation at a hospital and in good condition, the agency said. On Sunday, a patient in Los Angeles and another in Arizona were also confirmed to have contracted the virus.

On Friday the CDC said a Chicago woman in her 60s was diagnosed with the coronavirus that originated in Wuhan. The woman had traveled to Wuhan in late December and returned on Jan. 13, officials said.

A man in Washington state was diagnosed Monday with the coronavirus after arriving at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport on Jan. 15 from China.

Officials have screened more than 2,000 people to date, 63 of them being further investigated — 11 of which had negative test results, CDC officials said. The immediate threat to the public remains low, officials said.

Here’s what we know about the Wuhan coronavirus:

Has it reached the Bay Area?

There are no confirmed cases of anyone in the Bay Area testing positive for the coronavirus. On Thursday, the Fremont Fire Department issued an alert to dispel rumors on social media that the virus had sickened people in Fremont. Officials in Alameda County were testing fewer than ten people but did not confirm any cases. A spokesman for the Contra Costa Health Services said officials tested one person for the coronavirus and the results were negative.

What are Bay Area health officials doing in response to the crisis?

CDC and county health departments are urging people who have recently traveled to Wuhan, China, or who have been in close quarters with someone who has traveled there to contact the county health department or their physicians if they have a respiratory illness (fever, lower respiratory symptoms such as a cough or shortness of breath). Doctors are being asked to alert their county health departments if they come across a suspected case, to isolate the patient and to have hospital and health workers take precautions around the patient.

In the San Francisco Department of Public Health, healthcare providers are advised to screen for travel history on all patients with potentially infectious diseases, especially those with fever and respiratory illness. Officials must isolate patients in a private, closed room with a surgical mask if they have a fever of more than 100.4 degrees, if they have lower respiratory symptoms, and if they have traveled to Wuhan 14 days prior to their illness, and those who have had close contact with a person with the virus.

Healthcare workers must wear gloves, hospital gowns, eye protection such as goggles or a face shield, and slip on an N95 mask or respirator. They must report the patient to the county department of health and begin collecting specimens for testing, according to the CDC.

In San Francisco, the specimens are to be transported to the San Francisco Public Health Laboratory. These procedures may differ from county to county.

Are there suspected cases in the Bay Area?

Yes. Alameda County health officials said they have fewer than 10 cases in which people who either recently traveled to Wuhan or came in close contact with someone who did — and who are ill — are being tested to see if they have the coronavirus. The CDC is conducting the tests.

Where are the confirmed cases?

Cases of patients with the coronavirus have been confirmed in China, Japan, Thailand, South Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan, Vietnam, Singapore, Nepal, France, Australia, Canada and the United States.

Is the new virus related to the virus that caused SARS?

Yes. Coronaviruses are part of a “large family of viruses,” according to the CDC. Two other kinds of coronaviruses, such as SARS, severe acute respiratory syndrome, and MERS, or Middle East respiratory syndrome, have been identified as viruses that cause severe respiratory illness.

But despite being related to the virus that caused SARS, scientists and public health officials are scrambling to understand how easily it spreads from person to person and how it can be stopped.

How can I protect myself?

CDC officials advise people to avoid touching their eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands, wash their hands frequently with liquid soap and water for at least 20 seconds, cover their mouth when they cough or sneeze, stay home if they are ill and avoid sick people.

What’s happening at the airports?

The CDC has been screening airplane travelers arriving from Wuhan to five airports in the United States, including: San Francisco International Airport, New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport, and Los Angeles International Airport. Officials are expected to begin screening passengers arriving to Chicago O’Hare International Airport and Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Lauren Hernandez and Alejandro Serrano are San Francisco Chronicle staff writers. Email: lauren.hernandez@sfchronicle.com alejandro.serrano@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @LaurenPorFavor, @serrano_alej