A DESPERATE hunt was under way last night for 2,000 recent arrivals in the UK from China after at least nine people were tested for killer coronavirus.

They all arrived in Britain within the past two weeks from Wuhan, the centre of the deadly outbreak.

18 Officials are desperately trying to find 2,000 recent arrivals in the UK from Wuhan Credit: EPA

18 Health warnings have been posted around the UK's airports Credit: Simon Jones - The Sun

18 There was a police presence outside the Queen Elizabeth University Hospital in Glasgow, where it is understood at least one person is being treated in isolation Credit: SWNS:South West News Service

But experts say it is now too late to contain the bug, warning it may already be on our shores.

The warning comes as nine unidentified patients faced a worrying overnight wait for their results - and experts fear there could be many more victims.

Six of the potential victims are being held in isolation at Scottish and Northern Irish hospitals.

A further three — believed to be from England or Wales — are also being tested after feeling unwell.

Officials claim a further five ­people have been checked out and given the all-clear.

The Daily Mail this morning claimed there may be a seventh suspected case at the Hillingdon Hospital in west London - although Public Health England refused to comment.

It comes as...

The coronavirus death toll has climbed to 26 with more than 800 confirmed cases

China has placed a lockdown on the Hubei province, the centre of the outbreak

Fourteen people in the UK have been tested for coronavirus with five confirmed negative and nine still awaiting the results

Authorities are monitoring the virus with fears millions of people will travel for the Lunar New Year

The World Health Organisation is yet to declare a global public health emergency

The deadly coronavirus has continued its relentless global march, with the number of nations affected almost doubling overnight.

At least 26 people have died from the virus in China while confirmed cases have skyrocketed to over 800 in the country, officials said.

Vietnam, Singapore, Saudi Arabia and Hong Kong all now have confirmed cases — alongside the US, China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.

But the World Health Organisation last night refused to declare a global public health emergency, saying it was “too early”.

However, officials admitted the committee was split almost 50-50.

Four major Chinese cities are in lockdown with 20million people in quarantine, with evidence of human to human transmission.

18 A picture posted on social media appears to show a patient being covered to prevent infecting others Credit: Instagram

Officials have restricted travel in Wuhan, which is home to 11million, as well as neighbouring Huanggang, Ezhou and Lichuan.

Hospitals warned they could not cope with the number of patients turning up with symptoms.

Preliminary research suggested the coronavirus was passed on to humans from snakes at Wuhan’s seafood market.

It has now killed 18 people, with 650 thought to have been infected in ten countries.

Michael Ryan, head of WHO’s emergencies programme, said almost three-quarters of confirmed cases were in people aged over 40, with four in ten having underlying health conditions.



DEADLY VIRUS

Experts have warned it may prove as deadly as the Spanish flu, which claimed 50million lives.

There are fears that it could accelerate further with millions travelling for Chinese New Year celebrations tomorrow.

Britain is now ramping up preparations against the epidemic, with Health Secretary Matt Hancock warning there will likely be cases in the upcoming days.

Mr Hancock said the UK is “well prepared” to deal with the virus.

He told the Commons: “This is a rapidly developing situation and the numbers of cases and deaths is likely to be higher than those that have been confirmed so far. We expect them to rise further.

18 Medics attend to a patient suspected to have been struck down by coronavirus in Hong Kong Credit: Reuters

18 One of the patients is being treated at Queen Elizabeth University Hospital in Glasgow Credit: Alamy

18 A woman arrives at London Heathrow from China on Thursday wearing a face mask Credit: SWNS:South West News Service

18 Disturbing footage purporting to show someone eating bat soup has sparked fears that the deadly coronavirus could have been spread from the Chinese delicacy

18 Footage has been shared on social media of people eating bat soup - scientists have claimed the virus may have been spread by the flying mammal

18

“The Chief Medical Officer has revised the risk to the UK population from ‘very low’ to ‘low’ — and has concluded that there is an increased likelihood that cases may arise in this country.”

The NHS 111 helpline has a message encouraging callers to report any flu-like symptoms if they have recently travelled to China.

Experts claim the five potential cases in Scotland and one in Belfast may be the tip of the iceberg.

Professor Jurgen Haas, head of infection medicine at Edinburgh University, said he expected more.

He added: “The situation will be pretty similar in pretty much all UK cities with a large number of Chinese students.

“It’s not too surprising. My suspicion is that there will probably be many more cases in many other cities in the UK.”

And a mum whose baby was diagnosed with a mild strain of coronavirus revealed how her six-month-old son was hospitalised for five days.

Amy Brooks, from Widnes, in Cheshire, said it took baby James eight weeks to recover.

TIP OF THE ICEBERG

Meanwhile, a student dinner to celebrate Chinese New Year in Edinburgh tomorrow was cancelled over 'health and safety' concerns as fears grow of the killer coronavirus spreading.

A spokesman for Edinburgh University Hong Kong International Society posted on Facebook: "In light of the recent outbreak in Edinburgh and all around the world, we are sad to announce that we are cancelling our Chinese New Year dinner on 25th for health and safety reasons.

"However, we will be re-hosting another gathering dinner later in the future when the virus is controlled."

Shanghai Disneyland has also been closed from Saturday until further notice.

In a message to its quests, the resort said: "In response to the prevent and control of the disease outbreak and in order to ensure the health and safety of our guests and Cast, Shanghai Disney Resort is temporarily closing Shanghai Disneyland, Disneytown including Walt Disney Grand Theatre and Wishing Star Park."

A Scottish Government spokesman confirmed tests had been carried out and said: “Following travel to Wuhan, China, two people confirmed as diagnosed with influenza are now being tested for coronavirus as a precautionary measure only.

Three further people are also undergoing testing on a similar precautionary basis.”

Elsewhere, two police stations were temporarily closed amid fears that a Chinese detainee was displaying flu-like symptoms.

MOST READ IN HEALTH NEWS Sex Secrets Prostitute who earns £2,000 a week reveals the average penis size ... and how much she enjoys work So disgusting Is this the most pus to EVER come out of a spot? Queasy clip shows a man’s neck cyst lasered… and then squeezed Exclusive 'A BIBLE FOR ANOREXICS' Mum of teen who battled anorexia warns of the 'warped Instagram underworld' fuelling eating disorders Home remedies What causes mouth ulcers and how to treat them with stuff you have at home NO BONES ABOUT IT Blokes don't have willy bones because sex doesn't last longer than 3 minutes - and monogamy is to blame

Avon and Somerset Police said the decision to close Patchway police station, near Bristol, and Trinity Road police station in Bristol city centre on Wednesday night was taken as a precaution.

The force said a detainee had fallen ill and there were fears they may have had contact with people who had travelled from Wuhan.

But it quickly emerged the person did not have the virus.

18 Passengers were given health leaflets but described an otherwise regular arrival in London

18 This passenger said no one was screened in the UK arriving from China

18 A Chinese hospital has released first pictures of doctors treating patients who have been struck down by a new deadly virus Credit: Wuhan Central Hospital/Weibo

18

Students in trips alert By Nick McDermott, Health Editor CHINESE students in the UK face being quarantined if they have flown home to mark their New Year. At least a dozen universities in England and Scotland have ties with Wuhan. Five Aberdeen staff who flew there are back at work. One is working from home as a precaution. Chester said students would not be let back without an all-clear. Newcastle advised 300 students with links to Hubei province. Glasgow and Dundee also gave guidance.

Coronavirus leaves China a 'zombieland' with 'dead lying in deserted streets and medics patrolling in hazmat suits'