MORE than 25,000 Filipino household service workers (HSWs) or domestic helpers may lose their jobs as a result of the travel ban imposed by the government against Hong Kong and Macau as part of Manila’s precautionary measures to contain the spread of the 2019 novel coronavirus acute respiratory disease (2019 nCoV ARD).

A total of 10, 000 returning HSWs and 15,000 newly contracted ones, according to recruitment authorities, would likely lose their jobs if the travel ban would not be lifted by the end of this month.

Alfredo Palmiery, president of the Society of Hong Kong Accredited Recruiters of the Philippines, said the 15,000 HSWs with new contracts for employers in Hong Kong have only two to three weeks to join their new employers or they would lose their jobs.





On the other hand, the estimated 10,000 returning HSWs who are now in the Philippines on vacation for two to three weeks may also end up jobless if they cannot return on time.

There are more than 300,000 Filipino workers in Hong Kong and Macau, which are both special Administrative Regions of China.

The government is extending assistance to overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) affected by the temporary ban on the travel to China, Hong Kong, Macau and other coronavirus-affected areas, the Department of Labor and Employment announced on Monday.

The Bureau of Immigration has strictly implemented the travel ban on directives from Malacañang.

But Labor Secretary Silvestre Bello 3rd has assured the affected workers of financial assistance, including accommodation and transportation, to ease their plight.

Bello, who is currently in Kuwait, told Acting Labor Secretary Renato Ebarle to order the Overseas Workers Welfare

Administration (OWWA) to provide a P10,000-cash assistance for the accommodation and transportation of each stranded OFW.

In a memorandum to OWWA, Ebarle said the move would help ease the burden on departing workers, and assist them in their transport back to their hometowns.

Those stranded will also be provided with accommodation at the OWWA halfway house while arrangements for their travel to the provinces are being made.

Hundreds of OFWs, bound mostly for Hong Kong and Macau, were stranded at the Manila airport on Monday as a result of the travel ban imposed by President Rodrigo Duterte as precautionary measure to prevent the spread of nCoV that originated from the city of Wuhan in Hubei province, China.

The move also followed the first reported death from the virus in the Philippines, the first casualty outside Chinese territory.