IPOH: The Prime Minister’s decision to revert to the previous policy of teaching Science and Maths in English has ruffled the feathers of some quarters.

Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad should have discussed the matter with Pakatan Harapan component parties first before any decision was made, said Perak DAP vice-chairman Dr Abdul Aziz Bari.

“It is better for the Prime Minister and other ministers to have discussions with the Cabinet and parties’ committee first as it can cause confusion and disagreements among our coalition.

“No one, including the Prime Minister, is bigger than Pakatan. We need to discipline ourselves not to make any decision that can cause perplexity in Pakatan, ” he told reporters after attending a Chinese New Year event here yesterday.

“It seems like these days, opinions are given based on their personal preferences. Certain issues such as education matters need to be discussed together before making any decision.

“As an acting Education Minister, he (Dr Mahathir) must remember to follow Pakatan’s manifesto. Thorough discussions among parties are important before making any decision, ” Abdul Aziz said.

On Thursday, Dr Mahathir announced that English would again be used to teach Maths and Science during a special meeting with ministry management officials.

A video of his address was uploaded on social media.

The Teaching and Learning of Science and Maths in English was first introduced in phases back in 2003 under Dr Mahathir’s first tenure as prime minister. It was abolished in 2013.

The issue, said Abdul Aziz, was not about the usage of English but about the teaching of Science and Maths.

“Experts around the world have said that the best way to teach these subjects is to use our mother tongue.

“We are concerned that if the students’ proficiency in English is bad, it will also affect their learning of Science and Maths, ” he said.

“Right now, we are encouraging STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) and TVET (Technical and Vocational Education Training) subjects for students.

“By implementing such decisions that may affect these students, it would definitely halt the country’s growth towards a more developed nation, ” he added.

In Johor Baru, Umno vice-president Datuk Seri Mohamed Khaled Nordin said the re-introduction only reflected Pakatan’s lack of vision in coming up with better policies for the people.

He slammed politicians who continued to disregard Bahasa Melayu as the language for education.

“After six decades of independence, there are still leaders who consider Bahasa Melayu to be a backward language when it can be used as a language of knowledge.

“Bahasa Melayu can be used as the medium to elevate our people and only a weak society would turn its back on its mother tongue, ” he said in a statement.

Mohamed Khaled, who is also the former Higher Education Minister, said the medium of instruction was not what determined proficiency in science and technology.

“What we need is research, commitment to knowledge development and investment to upgrade the scientific community, ” he said, adding that science and technology were language neutral.

Umno, said Mohamed Khaled, would continue to fight for Bahasa Melayu to be used in the nation’s education without any compromise and would not agree to the policy, which had previously proven to be a failure.