While a second case of the novel coronavirus in Illinois was confirmed Thursday by the state's Department of Public Health and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, health officials said the risk to Illinois residents remains low.

A man in his 60s contracted the disease just days after his wife was identified as the first-confirmed case in Illinois. The woman, also in her 60s, returned from Wuhan, China - the city at the center of the outbreak - in mid-January. Her husband did not travel to China. Officials think it is the first person-to-person spread of the virus in the United States, according to the Illinois Department of Public Health.

IDPH director Dr. Ngozi Ezike said there are 21 individuals in Illinois who are considered “persons under investigation” for the virus, which is considered “novel” because not much is known about the new strain.

There are five confirmed cases of the virus across four U.S. states, according to the CDC. The World Health Organization as confirmed about 98 cases in 18 countries outside China, where the virus originated. There, at least 8,000 cases have been reported and more than 170 people have died.

But, Illinois health officials said residents shouldn't worry too much just yet.

“I want to emphasize that the risk of this novel coronavirus to the general public in Illinois remains low,” Ezike said. "Local, state, and federal health officials are working to identify those who have had close contact with the individual in order to take protective measures to minimize further spread of the virus. We will continue to keep the public fully informed as additional information becomes available.”

Gina Carnduff, director of infection prevention for Memorial Health System, said the risk to central Illinois was still low, noting how a person would have had to have been in Wuhan, China or in contact with someone with a confirmed case to contract the virus.

“This is an ever-changing virus, and we’re learning more and more about it every day,” Carnduff said. “At this time, however, the risk is very low that someone from central Illinois would be infected with this virus.”

Carnduff said the focus should instead be on preventing more prevalent viruses, such as the flu and RSV. In any case, she said common sense precautions like covering your mouth when you cough and washing hands frequently can help prevent the spread of all types of viruses.

While there is currently no vaccine to prevent the coronavirus, the CDC has recommended the following as the best ways to prevent infection:

Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol if soap and water are not available.Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.Avoid close contact with people who are sick.Stay home when you are sick.Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces.

Jerry Nowicki of Capitol News Illinois contributed to this report. Contact Brenden Moore: 788-1526, brenden.moore@sj-r.com, twitter.com/brendenmoore13.