12:56 Ben Turner-LE

Fears over flight

Passengers on board a flight from Tenerife say they have been left in the dark about whether they shared the plane with people diagnosed with coronavirus.

Bristol Live reports that a group of 10 people who are believed to have been quarantined in a hotel for a week were brought onto the service back to Bristol Airport on March 1.

They joined other passengers on the flight who had stay in other hotels which had not been affected by the virus.

However, other people who were on the flight have expressed their concerns about being on board the same plane as the quarantined group.

One of the passengers, Sue Trevascus, says when TUI staff were asked about the situation, they received very little information back.

"We knew there was a hotel in lockdown, and then just as we were sat there and ready to move, there was a delay and the captain said it was because we were going to be taking on some more passengers," she said.

"Then they brought about ten passengers on board who sat among everyone else, and people thought it was a bit odd.

"We flew back, and then when we'd landed back in Bristol, there was another announcement where they read out a list of about ten names and said those people should stay seated and will be taken off the plane separately and would be met by a person on the tarmac.

"Passengers started speculating that these were the people who had been quarantined, so I asked the staff on the aircraft what was happening, and whether these were people from that hotel, and they said they didn't know.

"I asked the person on the ground who had come out to meet the plane, and she said she didn't know either - it was all very odd. Clearly they did know what was going on, but they didn't tell anyone."

Ms Trevascus added that she felt sorry for the people involved, but was concerned at the lack of information, and whether it was safe or not.

"It must have been awful for those people to have been kept in their hotel on lockdown like they were, and I do feel sorry for them," she said.

"But I feel TUI should let the rest of the people on that flight know what's happening, just for reassurance. I think I had a right to know. They could have offered us masks. The fact they wouldn't tell me the truth was concerning.

"It had to have been our flight, as that was the only flight back from Tenerife on Sunday.

"It is worrying. These poor people were in their hotel for six days and while Tui said afterwards that they had tested negative, it had been only six days, and they say the virus could be there for 14 days before people show signs."

A spokesperson for TUI said the health and safety of our customers and crew is "our primary concern".

"All UK customers staying at the H10 Costa Adeje Palace in Tenerife were given clearance to fly home by Public Health England and The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) as long as they had a negative Covid-19 test result within a 24-hour period of their flight," they added.

So far, there have been 116 confirmed cases of coronavirus in the UK