Australians are being told to stop travelling to mainland China amid fears of the deadly coronavirus.

The Prime Minister has announced the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has upgraded its travel advice to level 4 - do not travel- and foreign travellers who have left or passed through mainland China will be denied entry to Australia except if they are citizens, permanent residents and immediate family.

© Getty Chinese students wear masks as they wait to take a train after the Spring Festival holiday on January 31, 2020 in Beijing, China.

"As of today, all travellers arriving out of mainland China not just Hubei province, as has been the case up until now, being asked and required to self-isolate for a period of 14 days from the time they leave mainland China," Mr Morrison said.

"To substantially reduce the volume of travellers coming from mainland China, they recommend additional border measures be implemented, deny entry to Australia for people who have left or transited through mainland China from 1 February, today."

Mr Morrison said all Chief Medical Officers of all the states and territories and the Commonwealth met today to discuss the changes.

© Getty A Chinese couple wear protective masks and goggles after getting off a train as they and others return after the Spring Festival holiday on January 31, 2020 in Beijing, China

© Sam Mooy Qantas will suspend flights to mainland China from next Sunday.

"What that means is the travel advice has changed," Mr Morrison said.

"What that means if you is you've come from mainland China at any time after 1 February then you'll be required to isolate for a period of 14 days.

"And for anyone other than Australians citizens, Australian residents, dependants, legal guardians or spouses, then you'll not be permitted entry into Australia and the arrangements are being put in place through our border authorities to ensure that that can be actioned.

"In addition to that, there'll be advanced screening and reception arrangements put into place at the major airports to facilitate identifying and providing this information and ensuring the appropriate precautions are being put in place."

© AP A child plays in the middle of Wuhan, the city effectively besieged as a consequence of the coronavirus plague.

It comes as Qantas suspends its two direct services to mainland China from next Sunday, and a couple aged 60 tested positive for the disease in South Australia after coming from the outbreak city of Wuhan.

A fourth person in Victoria also tested positive for the disease today.

The airline said the suspension follows entry restrictions imposed by countries including Singapore and the United States, which impact the movement of crew who work across the Qantas International network.

Another airline, Jetstar Asia has announced it will suspend all remaining services from Singapore to mainland China until 31 March 2020.

© The Peter Doherty Institute The coronavirus as seen under a microscope.

"These entry restrictions pose significant logistical challenges for rostering crew to operate mainland China services, leading to the need to temporarily suspend these flights," Qantas said in a statement.

The most recent case in Australia is a woman in her 20s who is a resident of Melbourne, who returned from a visit to Wuhan in China, where the coronavirus began, on January 25.

© Renee Nowytarger / SMH People arrive wearing masks to avoid contact with the Coronavirus at Sydney Airport.

She became unwell two days later, but was not seen by doctors at a Melbourne hospital until Thursday.

She is now resting at home.

The woman was not considered to be infectious on her flight to Melbourne.

She has remained at home and has had no visitors since her arrival in Australia.

The Victorian Health Department has not identified any close contacts that require follow-up.

The official advice remains that anybody who has been in China's Hubei province should self-isolate for 14 days after leaving.

© Getty Filipinos hoping to buy face masks crowd outside a medical supply shop that was raided by police for allegedly hoarding and overpricing the masks, as public fear over China's Wuhan Coronavirus grows, on January 31, 2020 in Manila, Philippines.

Other visitors to China are not considered at particular risk and do not need to quarantine themselves.

In NSW, there remain four confirmed cases of coronavirus, but only one remains in hospital.

Three other patients have been discharged.

Meanwhile, a Qantas flight is bound for Wuhan is set to pick up Australians stranded in the city.

A new strain of coronavirus has infected hundreds of people in China and there are fears it could spread around the world. Here's what you need to know.

They will spent 14 days in isolation at Christmas Island Detention Centre before being allowed to return to Australia.

In China, another 46 people have died from the illness, bringing to total death toll to 259.

There were 2102 new confirmed infections yesterday.

Nearly 12,000 people have the disease.

Pictures: Coronavirus outbreak