A A

The drug store clerk in Sydney noticed the young Asian man mailing a garbage bag full of surgical masks to China.

“It was a really big bag and it was full,” said the woman at the Prince Street Shoppers Drug Mart/Canada Post outlet, who didn’t want to disclose her name.

On Tuesday, a day after the unusual occurrence, the drug store was all out of surgical masks, the woman said.

Max Chen, a native of China and student at Cape Breton University, had scoured the city for surgical masks on Monday but had no luck. The university’s Chinese community is on edge over the global Wuhan coronavirus outbreak, he said. The virus has killed more than 360 people and infected at least 17,000 worldwide.

The mask shipments are needed in China where in some areas there’s a shortage. But for Chen, he was looking to protect himself from the possibility that a member of the university’s Chinese community is infected with the virus. He’s said he’s among many Chinese CBU students worried about the threat on campus.

A woman from Wuhan, where the virus originated, arrived in Sydney on Christmas Day. Though there have been no confirmed cases of the virus he remains unconvinced that she hasn’t been infected.

Chen’s fear is ultimately rooted in his distrust of the Chinese government. He and many CBU Chinese students believe the government is lying about the extent of the outbreak. Chen, who's among roughly 3,500 Chinese university students in Nova Scotia, fears that no one knows just how virulent the virus is. He believes the university and the province’s public health officials are unprepared to deal with an outbreak at the university.

"We believe that the Chinese government is not telling other countries the truth about this virus," said Chen. "We’re not getting good, reliable information from anyone. Public health and the university is saying we’re at very low risk but I don’t believe it.”

Yanjun Dong, a fellow Chinese CBU student, agrees.

“A lot of us are panicking because we know there are a lot of people from Wuhan City that go to the university and many of them went home for Christmas break and came back,” said Dong. “People can be infected and not show any symptoms but pass it on to others.”

Cape Breton University spokeswoman Lenore Parsley said in an email that the administration is aware of these concerns and they’re being addressed. She said students, faculty and staff have been provided “current and accurate information as relayed to us by the Nova Scotia Department of Health and Wellness and the chief medical officer of health, Dr. Robert Strang.”

She said the university’s health centre has been contending with many concerns from students about the virus, and “that we are communicating the importance of healthy flu prevention habits and have met with our cleaning service provider to ensure rigorous cleaning in classrooms, common spaces and other high traffic areas.”

Doctor wants more information

Ajantha Jayabarathan, a Halifax family physician, said the students have grounds to be concerned. Jayabarathan has been keeping up on the emerging evidence on the virus and the latest public health data. She also believes the number of infections in China is much higher than the official numbers show, given the country’s critical shortage of testing kits and its enormous population. Wuhan alone has a population of 10 million.

But she said the country has responded well to the crisis in other ways, saying it has offered the genome of the virus immediately to the world and a vaccine is already on the way. She estimated it would take about a year before a vaccine would be available.

"The single thing we have to do right now is to stop the spread of the virus because what we know about viruses is the more they spread and the more host bodies they infect there’s a greater and greater opportunity for them to develop defences against the host immune system."

But she said the province's Department of Health has been slow in providing critical information about the evolving virus to residents and front-line health-care workers. The physician questions whether a system already strained by a health-care crisis is prepared for an outbreak at a university or anywhere else.

On Thursday, the province launched a website containing information on the virus. By comparison, Newfoundland launched a similar site almost a month earlier, on Dec. 31. New Brunswick did the same almost a week before Nova Scotia.

Jayabarathan believes the province should introduce an 811 coronavirus hotline run by public health.

"If there is a threat then very quickly these people can be tested by a doctor or paramedics and potentially be quarantined. They should not go to a walk-in clinic or overcrowded emergency room."

The province advises potentially infected people to seek care at their local emergency room. But that option presents problems, said the physician. Beyond being a potential breeding ground for the virus, she said several emergency departments in the province are often short-staffed and not always open.

Nova Scotia unable to test

Heather Fairbairn, a spokeswoman with the Department of Health, said in an email that public health is working closely with universities in the province, keeping them abreast of any new information on the virus.

The province is so far unable to test for the virus. Suspected cases would be diagnosed at the National Public Health Agency lab in Winnipeg. One person in Nova Scotia was tested with negative results, said Fairbairn.

Last week, the province’s head microbiologist, Todd Hatchette, said public health is waiting on the proper reagents to conduct the testing here. Fairbairn said on Friday that the department hopes to have the reagents soon.

Even when that testing becomes available, the samples will be sent to the national lab in Winnipeg for confirmation, she said.

In the meantime, she said “there is a constant flow of information from the Public Health Agency of Canada and the World Health Organization.”

“We have well-established provincial response plans in place, and we are actively working with our colleagues across the health system to prepare in the event of possible cases in this province.

RELATED

Man, 44, is first to die outside of China, raising death toll to 361

Likely three years before coronavirus vaccine is available

China accuses U.S. of whipping up panic over virus as stocks tumble

EDITORIAL: Greatest danger from coronavirus may be virulent xenophobia

Russia may expel foreigners with coronavirus