Sex workers are claiming they have been discriminated against because of coronavirus and are choosing to lie on their profiles so they get more work.

Chinese sex workers in New Zealand are choosing to change their nationality to Asian in sex directory advertisements online and cut down rates.

A Chinese sex worker anonymously told NZ Herald she also slashed her rates in half in addition to changing her nationality in sex advertisements online.

Sex workers are claiming they have been discriminated against because of coronavirus and are choosing to lie on their profiles so they get more work (stock image)

Despite dropping her rates from $180 to $90 the woman still claims to have lost more than 50 per cent of her business since the coronavirus outbreak.

The Chinese sex worker, who advertises on newzealandgirls.co.nz said her business has never been this bad before.

People are refusing to pay for her services despite her being a New Zealand citizen who has not returned to China for eight years.

She said clients saw her as 'no different to someone who has just arrived from Wuhan'.

'I don't mention that I am Chinese any more and I offer a big discount, but clients are avoiding us like we are the virus,' the sex worker said.

Sex worker activist Dame Catherine Healy said it is currently a 'worrying time' for sex workers.

'We are concerned about the ability for people to both avoid this virus and survive financially,' Ms Healy said.

The New Zealand Prostitutes Collective has been warning sex workers to follow precautions made by the Ministry and Health and World Health Organisation.

High profile New Zealand sex worker Lisa Lewis said she has had to screen clients if they have a cold or flu symptoms.

She also makes them use hand sanitiser once handling money.

'I have them shower in front of me where I put the soap I've purchased on them to ensure hygiene is maintained, and I don't kiss clients,' Ms Lewis said.

Ms Lewis said she feels sympathetic for Chinese sex workers and thinks they are being discriminated against.

'I feel maybe they are being discriminated against which isn't nice,' she said.