A passenger worried about the deadly coronavirus outbreak has worn a motorbike helmet on-board a flight from China to Australia to fight off infection.

The man's attire was reported by others on the flight from Shanghai to Perth on Wednesday morning as the death toll in the Asian country rose to 132 from 106 in the space of a day.

Those who landed in Perth about 9.30am on the nine-hour China Eastern flight also had to stay in their seats while officials sprayed around them, one passenger said.

Scroll down for video

Those on-board a flight to Perth from Shanghai reported one passenger wearing a motorbike helmet (pictured) to stop infection from the deadly coronavirus

'When I transferred in Shanghai I did not see anyone in the airport without a mask,' passenger Marina Jambrina told The West Australian.

'There was one guy wearing a [motorcycle] helmet,' another passenger John Fu said.

Mr Fu said he had to make sure his son did not remove his mask as he kept trying to take it off during the flight.

As has become the norm for flights arriving in Australia from China, passengers were also given information sheets detailing the ways they can keep themselves safe from the virus.

Chinese authorities confirmed on Wednesday the death toll had increased by 16, and the number of confirmed cases had increased to 5,974 from 4,515.

Authorities in Australia meanwhile fear another 16 people, including a two-year-old, could have contracted the virus in New South Wales alone.

Passenger wearing protective face masks are pictured after arriving in Brisbane on Wednesday

The China Eastern flight (one of the airline's planes pictured landing in Sydney on January 23) was also sprayed down by officials on arrival in Perth, according to one passenger

All 16 people who are believed to be carrying the virus are in isolation awaiting their test results.

More than 600 Australians trapped in China could also soon be evacuated following the outbreak.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced on Wednesday the government is preparing a 'plan' to provide some assisted departures for vulnerable Australians stranded in Wuhan.

'We're preparing a plan for an operation to provide some assisted departures for isolated and vulnerable Australians in Wuhan and the Hubei province,' Mr Morrison said.

'This will be done subject obviously to working closely and with the authority and approval of the Chinese Government... I stress that this will be done on a last in, first out basis.

Christmas Island will be used as a quarantine centre to house and treat people transported under the plan. They will be kept on the remote island for at least 14 days.