CLOSE A new coronavirus has emerged, the latest of deadly viruses that have spread worldwide. Here's how a virus differs from a bacterial infection. Wochit

The person in New Jersey who was being tested for the virus that caused a widespread outbreak in China does not have it, the New Jersey Department of Health said Tuesday.

Test results from the federal Centers for Disease Control came back negative, said Nicole Kirgan, a department spokeswoman. "There is no other person in New Jersey under investigation at this time."

So far, five people in the United States – in Washington, Illinois, California and Arizona – have received confirmed diagnoses. The virus, which originated in a live animal market in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, has sickened thousands in China and killed more than 100 people there.

The symptoms, which usually start two to 10 days after exposure, include a fever and respiratory complaints such as shortness of breath and coughs.

2019 Novel Coronavirus travel alert from New Jersey Department of Health, Jan. 28, 2020. (Photo: Reale, Krista)

The CDC announced Tuesday that it would expand screening of arriving travelers from China to 20 airports, in addition to the five where it was already underway.

Existing quarantine stations at those airports will be on the lookout for ill passengers arriving on flights from China, said Robert Redfield, the director of the CDC, at a press conference in Washington, D.C.

The CDC has issued its highest travel alert so far in the outbreak, advising travelers to avoid inessential travel to all of China and not go to Hubei province, where Wuhan is located.

CORONAVIRUS FALSE ALARMS: Why NJ, hospitals across the US are seeing false alarms over China virus

IN NJ: New Jersey had the country's highest real estate foreclosure rate — again

United Airlines said Tuesday it was canceling some flights between China and the United States, including to and from Newark Liberty International Airport, because of diminished demand.

All of the cases diagnosed in the United States have been among travelers returning from Wuhan. There has been no human-to-human transmission in the United States.

Details of the patient in New Jersey who was tested were not made available by the state health department. To meet the criteria for sending lab samples to the CDC, however, the patient had to have traveled within the past two weeks to Wuhan, and had a fever and respiratory symptoms.

Coronavirus hotline A hotline to answer the public’s questions about the novel coronavirus has been set up by the state Health Department at 1-800-222-1222. Calls to the hotline are free, and health professionals are available 24/7 to provide assistance in multiple languages. The call center is operated by the New Jersey Poison Information and Education System, part of the emergency medicine division at Rutgers New Jersey Medical School. Updates from the state Health Department are available here.

The CDC has the only laboratory currently capable of confirming a diagnosis with the new, or novel, coronavirus. It expects to send test kits to enable state laboratories to conduct the tests themselves soon.

On Tuesday, the New Jersey Health Department opened a hotline to answer the public's questions about the new, or novel, coronavirus.

Lindy Washburn is a senior healthcare reporter for NorthJersey.com. To keep up-to-date about how changes in the medical world affect the health of you and your family, please subscribe or activate your digital account today.

Email: washburn@northjersey.com Twitter: @lindywa

Read or Share this story: https://www.northjersey.com/story/news/health/2020/01/28/coronavirus-nj-patient-does-not-have-china-virus-state-says/4597936002/