Victoria's tourism authority is ramping up efforts to attract visitors from several continents as a ban on Chinese travellers deals the industry a blow.

Foreign visitors who have left or passed through China are being denied entry to Australia to limit the spread of the deadly coronavirus.

China is Victoria's largest source of overseas tourists and state tourism minister Martin Pakula says the travel ban, announced by the federal government on Saturday, will take a toll.

"There is absolutely no doubt tourism, amongst many other sectors of our economy, will be impacted quite significantly for as long as this travel ban continues," he told reporters on Tuesday.

The state government is working with Visit Victoria to attract international travellers who are tossing up where they should holiday.

"They will be preparing a campaign, a very significant campaign, into other parts of southeast Asia, New Zealand, Europe and the Americas," Mr Pakula said.

It remains unclear exactly how long Chinese tourists will be barred, the minister added.

There have been 12 confirmed cases of coronavirus in Australia and more than 17,000 cases and 360 deaths globally.

Four of the Australian cases have been in Victoria, where 41 people were awaiting test results on Tuesday and 178 people had tested negative.

More than 200 Australian citizens and residents were evacuated from the epicentre of the coronavirus in China to Christmas Island overnight, with a second group to be evacuated to New Zealand.

Victorian Health Minister Jenny Mikakos said she is awaiting advice from the federal government on how many of those people are Victorians.

She also thanked Chinese Victorians for their co-operation with authorities and expressed concern about reports there had been discrimination.

"I am disturbed by reports of discrimination and racism against members of Victoria's Chinese community," she told reporters.

"There is no one in Victoria who is taking this issue more seriously than Victorian Chinese Australians."

Australian citizens, permanent residents and their immediate families, dependents, legal guardians and spouses are exempt from the travel restrictions.