She's set to play Charles Ingram's wife Diana in a drama based on the Who Wants To Be Millionaire? coughing cheat scandal.

And Sian Clifford joined Quiz writer James Graham to talk about her role in the much-anticipated drama on Thursday, at the AMC Network's portion of the Winter 2020 TCA Press Tour in Pasadena.

The Fleabag star, 37, will star opposite Matthew Macfayden as the 'coughing Major' Charles Ingram in the ITV drama, which documents the couples' plot to cheat their way to the £1 million prize, and their eventual arrest and conviction two years later.

Exciting: Sian Clifford joined Quiz writer James Graham to talk about their role in the much-anticipated drama based on the Who Wants To Be A Millionaire 'coughing cheating' scandal

Sian cut a chic figure in a fitted white bandage skirt and top by Hervé Léger with a high neck and sheer detailing around her decolletage as she posed with acclaimed writer James.

The star added a hint of colour to her look with royal blue suede heels as she chatted about her role in the much-anticipated drama.

Sian will play Charles' wife Diana in the long-awaited ITV drama Quiz, which documents the scandalous moment Major Ingram cheated his way to £1 million pounds with the help of fellow contestant and college lecturer Tecwen Whittock.

The former army man struggled to reach £4,000 during his first appearance on the show, and according to an ITV documentary based on the scandal that aired in 2003, he then formed a plan with Whittock to reach the top prize.

Coming soon: The Fleabag star will appear as Charles Ingram's wife Diana, while Matthew McFayden will play the 'coughing major' who tried to cheat his way to £1 million

Stylish: Sian cut a chic figure in a fitted white bandage dress with a high neck and sheer detailing around her decolletage teamed with electric blue suede heels

They plotted that for each question, Whittock - who sat just feet away from the 'hot seat' - would cough when Charles read out the correct answer.

The coughs would not have been heard by viewers at home watching the show (which was never aired apart from during the documentary) as a majority of the sound was focused on the hot seat.

For the first few questions Charles and Tecwen's plan went unnoticed by the audience and watching crew members, but as they reached the higher figures they began to draw some attention.

Exciting: She and James - who also wrote the play about the scandal - chatted about the drama ahead of its launch later this year on ITV in the UK and AMC in the US

Praised: Sian recently earned critical acclaimed for her performance as Fleabag's sister Claire in the award-winning BBC drama written by Phoebe Waller-Bridge

Quiz man: Michael Sheen (left) will take on the role of Chris Tarrant (right at the trial in 2003) in the series. The veteran host has always said he had no indication Charles was cheating

By the time Ingram reached the final question - which he answered correctly - ITV bosses had noticed something was array, and he and Diana were reported to the authorities for fraud and banned from paying in their for £1 million cheque.

Host Chris Tarrant - who will be played by Michael Sheen in the drama - has always said he had no idea Charles was cheating despite being sat just feet away from him during the filming of the show.

The veteran host testified at the Ingrams trial, and said in the documentary he was 'amazed' to learn that they had been cheating.

Explosive: Charles tried to cheat his way to £1 million on Who Wants To Be A Millionaire in 2001, with the help of Tecwen Whittock

Drama: Whittock (above) was sat just feet away from Charles in the studio, and would cough to indicate each correct answer

After a four-week crown court trial in 2003, Charles and Diana were convicted of deception, and Ingram was given a 20-month suspended prison sentence.

His two accomplices were given 18-month suspended sentences for their part in the scam.

Quiz was directed by Stephen Frears, who made A Very English Scandal, and will air later this year on ITV and on AMC in the US.

Helen McCrory, Mark Bonnar and Aisling Bea will also star in the production, penned by James Graham, whose play of the story hit the West End.

The playwright said: 'I was gripped by this story over 15 years ago, and I'm still gripped now. It's a very English heist.'

ITV's head of drama Polly Hill said the three-part series would be 'an extraordinary and thoroughly British story and is going to be a real treat for our audience.'