NEW DELHI: India’s handset industry is staring at a major trouble caused by the deadly coronavirus outbreak which has triggered a lockdown in China. Senior executives of major handset makers termed the situation “precarious” and said that impact on the supply chain for handsets will be felt in India if component factories in China don't reopen at full blast next week.“The supply chain is certainly getting impacted, and we need to think of alternatives already else it will lead to a major disruption. The whole industry will suffer if the situation continues in China. The situation is precarious,” Lava chief manufacturing officer Sanjeev Aggarwal, told ET.According to Counterpoint estimates, 12% of handsets components are sourced locally in India, the remaining 88% are still dependent on countries outside India, with China being a key exporter. 85-90% of displays are sourced from China, while 70-80% SKDs, which are a key part of handset bills of material ( BoM) are from China alone.“Due to this, there will be business and cash flow issues in the entire chain. Consumers will get impacted on supplies and price rise. If it continues, it will culminate into job losses and further stress in the companies leading to further stress into the bank and lower tax collections,” Aggarwal added. Pankaj Mohindroo , Chairman, India Cellular and Electronics Association said that If the factories in Chinadon’t start from Monday as rescheduled on full blast, then the industry here will be having a real challenge on hand by the end of the next week. “Mobile phone finished goods inventories are also usually light and run into a few weeks and not months unlike conventional products,” he added.A Xiaomi India spokesperson said that the company's operations currently aren’t affected since it planned ahead for the Chinese new year. "Business might only get affected if China shuts down for additional 2/3 weeks but then all the other industries will also be affected. Currently, it's a wait and watch situation for all players dependent on China for supply or support," the spokesperson added.Another senior executive with a leading handset maker said that the year started with holidays in China because of which there were already fewer supplies, and then due to the outbreak holidays extended for 10 days. “There’s no clarity if people will return to jobs in China, which would lead to further compounding of the supply chain.”A senior executive working with a leading Chinese handset maker said that even if two components are missing, entire production will be majorly impacted in India. All handset makers will be equally impacted due to this."Proactive steps are needed to minimize the impact of the ailing economy. The government in India should consider it and ask banks to give short term extra leverage to companies to build alternate sources of the supply chain from Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan," he saidTechArc’s founder analyst Faisal Kawoosa said that if the situation persists in China beyond February 15, or worsens, then it will have an adverse impact on March and even on the second quarter when the launches start in a big way. “Owing to inventory build-up spilling from 2019, we were anyways expecting 1Q to be one of the lowest year on year,” he said, adding that if the situation worsens, the second quarter could be the worst sufferer.Counterpoint's associate director Tarun Pathak too said that the first quarter is a slow season, which is a positive factor for Chinese players in India and they can focus on getting rid of excess inventories already there in the market and push the new launches.Pathak, however, added that these Chinese firms in India are likely to be impacted due to the outbreak. "There is a good chance that the situation remaining critical for the next 4-5 weeks before subsiding in March but the impact is likely to remain in the first half of 2020. This impact can be in the form of delay of new launches due to supply chain disruption."Pathak added that the ban on travel will also impact the new product planning and development as factories will not function properly. Components sourced from China will also take a hit. The lack of workforce which is now working remotely in china can also impact logistics."To tackle the situation some of the companies can look for sourcing outside China, a factor which companies in China have always been considering even during China-USA trade war," he added.Poco India, which launched its latest smartphone on Tuesday, said that the company has one month of stock of devices for sale in India. "This is a very unfortunate situation and we read about it daily. Fortunately, for Poco, we have enough steps to take care of the situation including supplies. But I don't know about the situation later," General Manager, C Manmohan said.Market research agency Canalys has revised forecasts outlook for the Chinese handset market following the outbreak. "We are dramatically revised our forecasts to a 40%-to-50% drop for smartphones and 20% for PCs, with the proviso that the situation recovers to pre-outbreak levels by the end of February, giving the market a full month to recover in March. But the forecast scenario might deteriorate or improve rapidly as more information becomes available."Most component suppliers, some original device manufacturers (ODMs) and EMS retained minimum production levels during the Chinese New Year, and there is no immediate risk of production shutting down, Canalys said in a note. But, there are component factories in Zhejiang and Jiangsu that have been forced to shut down due to the spread of the coronavirus outside of Hubei province, as per reports.Canalys, however, added that ODMs assembling devices that require a large number of human workers are likely to follow the work restrictions imposed by the government."There is a high risk that component providers and ODMs will not be able to ramp up to normal capacity if the outbreak is prolonged," it said, adding that more widely spread supply disruptions are to be expected soon, even if just a few key components fall behind in production, or raw materials are not available to fulfill production demand, given the limited transportation service.Canalys added that there is also a risk of more key component manufacturers and ODMs being forced to close if the coronavirus spreads further in provinces such as Sichuan, Zhejiang and Guangdong, China’s key production bases."If large supply chain manufacturers, ODMs and EMS, such as Foxconn and Compal, find their operations affected, there will be a serious impact on the global market and vendors, such as Apple, which rely on Chinese production. Canalys will release a new research note to reflect further changes to its forecasts as the situation unfolds," it said.