Local health officials say no one has reported a suspected case of infection in Stark County.

Local health departments say they’re prepared to battle the coronavirus spreading in China if it shows up here.

So far, Stark County has no suspected or confirmed infections by what the Ohio Department of Health calls novel coronavirus. Health officials are investigating Ohio’s two only suspected cases at Miami University in Oxford with tests on two students who had traveled to China expected later this week.

The U.S. has five confirmed novel coronavirus cases as of Monday, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

An Ohio Department of Health fact sheet says the risk to public health in the state is low at this point.

But Canton Health Commissioner Jim Adams said the United States, Ohio and the four health departments in Stark County are being vigilant because of the potential for a severe outbreak.

"It’s a novel virus. Which means it’s a new virus, so we ... don’t know a lot about the course of the disease or how severe it can be," Adams said. "If it turns out the virus is more lethal than other coronaviruses, it has the potential to turn into a very large and very severe pandemic."

On alert

Adams said a network of health departments nationwide have established robust surveillance systems. If someone infected with the coronavirus comes into the county, develops symptoms and seeks medical assistance, the doctor will quickly notify the local health department. Those symptoms are fever, cough and difficulty breathing, according to the Ohio Health Department.

Health officials will then take quick action to contain the infection, Adams said. The local health department will notify the Ohio Department of Health, which will notify the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

If the patient has been hospitalized due to severe symptoms, the hospital will keep the patient isolated. Otherwise, the health department will ask the patient to isolate themselves in their home until the symptoms pass. It may also ask anyone who came into contact with that patient to stay in their homes until an agreed upon time, possibly 14 days since exposure, to see if they develop symptoms.

The time from infection to the appearance of symptoms isn’t clear. The state health department said it could be two to 14 days.

Adams said Stark County’s four health departments, which are Canton, Massillon, Alliance and Stark County, have alerted every practicing doctor, hospital, nursing home and any other healthcare provider in the county to be on the lookout for patients exhibiting possible symptoms from the novel coronavirus. And to notify them immediately no matter the time of day or night.

"Most respiratory viruses do change pretty quickly. The potential to mutation to a more aggressive virus or one that can be more deadly is possible," Adams said. "Which is why you want to get on it and identify as quickly as possible and prevent the spread. ... If you take swift and appropriate action early you’re going to limit the potential spread to other people in the community."

Hospitals watching

Aultman Hospital issued a statement that said it was working closely with local and state health officials; doctors and staff were trained to respond to a possible outbreak and its facilities had protective equipment to prevent transmission of contagions.

"We are already at a heightened awareness for infectious disease during flu season, and we are taking additional measures to actively screen patients who present with coronavirus-like symptoms," the statement said.

Mercy Medical Center said in a statement that it is following guidelines issued by the CDC, working with the state health department and taking part in conference calls with the department twice a week.

Adams said if a case of suspected coronavirus infection occurs in Stark County, investigators will try to find out where the patient has traveled in recent weeks and whom they had contact with. Because many of those infected came from Wuhan, the capital of the province of Hubei in China, any travelers from that area are subject to health screenings and temperature screenings at several U.S. airports.

"Travel history is very critical," said Adams. "People can get from any part of the world to another in 18 hours or so."

The patient would provide samples for testing, such as blood or nasal swabs and that would be sent to CDC to determine if they had coronavirus.

Adams said if anyone becomes sick, they should first call their doctor’s office for guidance before going to a doctor’s office waiting room or hospital ER and potentially infecting others.

He said in the United States wearing masks is "of dubious value, because standard paper masks have large openings that do not protect from infection. And more secure N95 masks are uncomfortable to wear for long periods of time and restrict air flow.

"We are very aware of the situation, and we are monitoring it daily, and if there are any changes we’ll let people know," said Adams, adding that flu is a bigger threat and kills tens of thousands of people in the U.S. each year. "The unknown factor always increases the perception of risk and the immediacy of media coverage changes a person’s perception of risk."

Reach Repository writer Robert Wang at (330) 580-8327 or robert.wang@cantonrep.com