Sign up to FREE email alerts from Liverpool Echo - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

Five British nationals, including a child, have been diagnosed with the coronavirus while on holiday in France.

The patients were taken to hospital on Friday night in Lyon, Saint-Etienne and Grenoble.

Officials said the five were infected by a British family member who caught the virus in Singapore and stopped in Contamines-Montjoie on his way back to the UK.

They all stayed in the same chalet.

On Thursday, a third patient in the UK tested positive for the coronavirus.

In a statement, Professor Chris Whitty said: "A further patient has tested positive for coronavirus, bringing the total number of cases in the UK to three. The individual did not acquire this in the UK.

"The patient is being transferred to a specialist NHS centre, and we are using robust infection control measures to prevent any possible further spread of the virus.

"The NHS is well prepared to manage these cases and we are now working quickly to identify any contacts the patient has had."

We'll be bringing you the very latest updates, pictures and video on this breaking news story.

This week we reported how a Belgian woman who has tested positive for coronavirus was on board the same French flight that brought back UK citizens from China on Sunday.

The woman travelled from Wuhan, the epicentre of the new strain of the virus, with 11 British evacuees including 10 who are now in quarantine at Arrowe Park Hospital.

Belgium's health agency said the woman was one of nine Belgians on board the flight which initially headed to France, from where the UK nationals continued on to RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire.

The ECHO revealed one of the UK group, Anthony May-Smith from Llandudno, reported feeling "slightly unwell" on the flight and was isolated from the other passengers, although he has since told reporters he feels better.

Mr May-Smith did not travel on to Arrowe Park and was diverted to another NHS hospital, but the rest of the group joined 83 other British evacuees from Wuhan in quarantine within a staff accommodation block.

(Image: Danny Lawson/PA)

Nick Phin, National Infection Service deputy director at Public Health England, said: "Public Health England has been notified that a Belgian national who shared a flight with repatriated British Nationals has tested positive for the novel coronavirus.

"All of the individuals who were on this flight are currently in supervised isolation and are being monitored for symptoms."

The 10 evacuees from the second group are being kept isolated from the original 83 in a separate area of the accommodation block while tests continue.

The World Health Organization (WHO) officials has said there have been 27 cases of person-to-person coronavirus spread in nine countries outside China, including two in the UK being treated in Newcastle.

The death toll in mainland China from the coronavirus outbreak has risen to 490, officials said early on Wednesday.

The total number of cases has increased to 24,324, as China moved patients into newly built or converted hospitals in the hardest-hit city of Wuhan.

The latest figures are up from 425 deaths and 20,438 confirmed cases on Tuesday.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock has said the Government is "taking no chances" with British citizens at risk of coronavirus as 14 more nationals and their dependants have been flown out of China.

On Tuesday, the Foreign Office urged all British nationals to leave China after the outbreak continued to claim lives.

Speaking on BBC Breakfast, Mr Hancock said the advice was a "science-led approach" based on the severity of the virus and its impact in China.

Asked how logistically Britons are expected to return to the UK, he told BBC Breakfast: "There are still commercial flights available.

"The principle that we are taking is that we want to take no chances with this virus.

"We want to take a science-led approach. The approach we have been taking is very much driven by the advice of the chief medical officer

"This is a very serious virus and having a very serious impact in China.

"There are two cases only here in the UK but we do expect more, so we are taking no chances."

The coronavirus is sweeping the globe having killed over 200 people.

Some 83 patients plus a further 11 are staying at Arrowe Park hospital in Merseyside where they are being quarantined for two weeks.

Doctors want to regularly check up on the group, who flew in from China this week, to help prevent any potential virus outbreak in the UK.

5 top tips to protect yourself

5 Good hygiene

The importance of hygiene is heavily promoted such as washing hands for at least 20 seconds with alcohol based gels or hand wash.

This is especially pivotal after going to the bathroom, before eating and after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.

People are also encouraged to avoid touching their eyes, noes or mouth with unwashed hands to reduce the spread of infection.

(Image: Getty Images)

4 Self quarantine

The public are also urged to stay at home and avoid public spaces when experiencing illness or flu like symptoms and also to avoid those showing signs of infection.

Those who have returned from China in the past 14 days are also encouraged to quarantine themselves regardless of whether they have shown symptoms or not.

This includes avoiding public transport or populated areas such as supermarkets, high streets and schools.

3 Disinfect your keyboard and phone

The WHO have also encouraged the public to regularly disinfect frequently used surfaces such as phones, and keyboards.

2 Cover your mouth

Additionally, when in public spaces, physical protectors such as masks are encouraged as well as ensuring tissues are always used when coughing or sneezing.

1 Contact your doctors

Finally, the NHS have advised those who have either returned from mainland China in the past 14 days or have come into close contact with anyone who has to seek medical advice from the NHS helpline 111.

This is particularly important if people begin to experience respiratory or flu like symptoms.

While the NHS have declared that the risk to the population is low, these steps are suggested to be vital to reduce the risks of mass infection within the UK and globally.

Typical symptoms of the coronavirus include fever and cough that can progress to severe pneumonia causing shortness of breath and breathing difficulties.

According to the government's advice the virus causes more severe symptoms in people with weakened immune systems , older people, and those with long-term conditions like diabetes, cancer and chronic lung disease.

In the confirmed cases of the virus, symptoms reported included fever, coughing, shortness of breath, muscle ache, confusion, headache and a sore throat.

Of the patients initially treated in China, a detailed analysis revealed that all 99 of the first patients had developed pneumonia - where there lungs became inflamed and the sacs where oxygen moves from the air to the blood were filling with water.

What do the World Health Organisation say

Wash your hands frequently with an alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water Why? Washing your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water kills the virus if it is on your hands.

Maintain social distancing – maintain at least 1 metre (3 feet) distance between yourself and other people, particularly those who are coughing, sneezing and have a fever. Why? When someone who is infected with a respiratory disease, like 2019-nCoV, coughs or sneezes they project small droplets containing the virus. If you are too close, you can breathe in the virus

Avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth Why? Hands touch many surfaces which can be contaminated with the virus. If you touch your eyes, nose or mouth with your contaminated hands, you can transfer the virus from the surface to yourself.

If you have fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical care early. Tell your health care provider if you have travelled in an area in China where 2019-nCoV has been reported, or if you have been in close contact with someone with who has travelled from China and has respiratory symptoms. Why? Whenever you have fever, cough and difficulty breathing it’s important to seek medical attention promptly as this may be due to a respiratory infection or other serious condition. Respiratory symptoms with fever can have a range of causes, and depending on your personal travel history and circumstances, 2019-nCoV could be one of them.

If you have mild respiratory symptoms and no travel history to or within China, carefully practice basic respiratory and hand hygiene and stay home until you are recovered, if possible.

Do you have any tips that aren't covered? Let us know in the comments below