The mother of a four-year-old battling leukemia is urging everyone to be responsible to avoid spreading illnesses like the novel coronavirus.

​The virus has infected more than 31,000 people and killed 720 people, although only one death in the Philippines was outside of mainland China, the World Health Organisation reported on Friday.

Despite no cases being confirmed in New Zealand, it is a scary time for Auckland mother Olivia, who did not want her last name used.

MARK SCHIEFELBEIN Face masks are common on both children and adults in mainland China, where the novel coronavirus first started.

The North Shore woman's four-year-old son has been battling leukemia for two years and, while his condition is stable, he is still immunocompromised.

READ MORE:

* Coronavirus likely to drag on, with serious consequences for New Zealand

* New Zeaand police investigating 'ignorant, arrogant' coronavirus email

* Coronavirus evacuees could have stay extended if any test positive

* Coronavirus: New Zealand blocks travellers coming from China

Since the potentially fatal coronavirus hit the news, Olivia has asked her husband to carry out the household's errands, and isolated herself and her son.

NIJWAM SWAGIARY/UNSPLASH Olivia says her four-year-old son is being kept inside, due to the risks coronavirus could have on him.

"I'm paranoid because it is actually quite serious if he catches it."

On Saturday, Olivia was horrified to find a post on a Chinese language social media site from a woman refusing to self-isolate after returning from Wuhan, purportedly to New Zealand, because of the disruption to her work and daily life.

It was not clear when the woman had returned from Wuhan or where she was now staying.

COLLETTE DEVLIN/STUFF Some New Zealand pharmacies have been running out of face masks due to fear of coronavirus.

But Olivia urged everyone coming from China to follow the advice of health officials, for the sake of people like her son.

"I'm glad that they're able to come back to New Zealand where it's safe but they also have a responsibility to protect New Zealand - their home. There are vulnerable people like us."

Olivia said people should also be more encouraging of those who choose to wear face masks, such as her husband, who is originally from Hong Kong.

DAVID WHITE/STUFF Tourists arriving in New Zealand having been wearing face masks to help prevent any spread of coronavirus.

"He gets some bad stares sometimes; we don't want to scare people but we just want to be extra careful because my son's vulnerable."

She fears strange stares - and downright racism for those of Asian decent - will put people off wearing face masks, when they are one way to help stop the virus spreading.

The Ministry of Health is asking anyone in New Zealand who has travelled through or from mainland China after February 1, to self-isolate for 14 days.

Those people are also asked to register their details with Healthline within 24 hours of arrival, and people who are unsure can contact Healthline for advice.

New Zealand evacuees from Wuhan were being isolated in a military facility on the Whangaparāoa Peninsula in north Auckland.

Ministry of Health senior advisor Dylan Moran said the ministry had not experienced anyone who needed to self-isolate and was refusing to.

"For most people, a conversation is enough."

However, the ministry did have the power to detain someone if needed, but Moran thought those powers had not been used.