It was almost two weeks ago that Ontario officials announced the first case of the novel coronavirus in Canada. The day after that press conference, I went to my local Costco in midtown Toronto and was alarmed by the number of people wearing masks. Dozens of them. It was quite something.

The next day – a workday – there were several people on my subway car masked up, as well as others walking around the streets. I watched a panicked man in a drug store desperately ask for masks, while another customer inquired about hand sanitizer only to be told they were sold out.

It was a week of frenzy. And now it has largely calmed down.

I haven’t been back to that Costco yet to compare numbers, but I have been on the subway daily this week and I haven’t seen a single mask. I’m sure there are still a few out there, but the alarm is muted.

What changed? What do we know now that we didn’t 10 days ago?

For starters, there were too many unknown factors. It’s not every day that over 50 million people are placed under lockdown, as they have been in China. That in itself was cause for alarm, with all the frightening pictures and videos going viral. The worry was clearly that this thing would spread like wildfire. And it certainly has spread aggressively in China, killing over 550 to date.

Infectious disease experts admitted at the time that they did not know the severity of the illness, how it spread and how quickly it did so. These questions aren’t entirely answered now, but we at least have a better sense and it doesn’t appear to be the worst case scenario.

When the first case cropped up in Canada, many people clearly felt like anything was possible. Because it was. Hence the excessive caution and, in some people, fear. We were told by public health officials to trust the system, but it was obvious that the system itself didn’t have a firm handle on the situation.

A lot has changed in that short time though, both with what’s happening globally and how Canada specifically is responding to the situation.

Last week, Public Health Minister Patty Hadju spoke of quarantining Canadians returning from Wuhan only if they exhibited symptoms. That seemed a little too lenient. Meanwhile, public health officials appeared more preoccupied with chastising citizens for potential flare-ups of xenophobia than getting to the bottom of all the unknown variables of the illness.

Now though, Canada has toughened its response. The hundreds of people returning on a government chartered flight will be held for two weeks at CFB Trenton. A wise decision.

Public health officials have since limited themselves to announcing just the facts, and the facts, so far, are good. The first confirmed case of the illness was sent home from Sunnybrook Hospital, mostly recovered. That in itself surely did a lot to calm public fears. If one of our earlier cases had tragically died, we’d be left asking just how deadly things will get. Instead, the updates we’re getting are mostly about how suspected cases are being ruled out, discovered to be simply the regular flu.

It took a while, but Canada is now showing coronavirus caution. That doesn’t mean we’re entirely in the clear. The cases in China continue to increase rapidly, along with a rising death toll. Those cases outside of China are also growing, but much more slowly.

Will it ramp-up here? Let’s hope for the best but prepare for the worst.

For now though, public anxiety is decreasing. My guess is the Costco mask count has gone down.