Japan has confirmed it has had its first case of a new infection from the new coronavirus that has killed one person in China and prompted a travel alert.

A man in his 30s, who lives near Tokyo, has tested positive the health ministry in Japan said in a statement on Thursday.

The man had visited the Chinese city of Wuhan, where an outbreak of pneumonia is believed to have been caused by the new strain.

The virus causes symptoms including a running nose, headache, cough, sore throat and fever.

The state department issued a health update on Wednesday about travel to the region - referencing a Watch Level 1 Alert by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention urging people travelling to the region to avoid contact with animals, animal markets or animal products.

Thai health authorities said on Wednesday they are stepping up monitoring of passengers arriving at airports ahead of the New Year holiday, when 800,000 tourists are expected to visit.

(Image: Getty Images)

The World Health Organisation has warned the new virus could spread to hospitals worldwide.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that can cause infections from a common cold to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome.

Some cause less serious illness with others are far more severe.

The Japanese patient returned from Wuhan in January 2020 with a fever and was taken to hospital. He was released on Wednesday when the symptoms subsided, according to the health ministry statement.

Public Health England said it is monitoring the situation and the risk to the UK population is "very low" but travellers to Wuhan should take simple precautions "such as practicing good hand and personal hygiene and minimise contact with birds and animals in markets in Wuhan as a further precaution".

The Wuhan Municipal Health Commission has reported 41 cases of the disease so far, the majority of which appear to be connected to a seafood and animal market in the city.

Dr Nick Phin, National Infection Service Deputy Director of Public Health England, said: "We strongly urge people to avoid touching dead or dying birds and maintain good hand and personal hygiene."

Get breaking news first on the free Manchester Evening News app - download it here for your Apple or Android device. You can also get a round-up of the biggest stories sent direct to your inbox every day with the MEN email newsletter - subscribe here . And you can follow us on Facebook here .