A San Diego County resident who visited Wuhan, China and developed a respiratory illness after returning home has tested negative for coronavirus, according the County Health and Human Services Agency.

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed the test results Thursday.

The patient has been isolated at home while test results were pending. Health officials say there are no other patients in the county being investigated for the coronavirus.

RELATED: San Diego consumers begin to feel economic impact of coronavirus outbreak

RELATED: VERIFY: Can wearing face masks prevent you from getting the Coronavirus?

RELATED: San Diego Asian businesses take a hit amid coronavirus fears

RELATED: CDC testing potential San Diego coronavirus case

RELATED: Case of coronavirus confirmed in L.A. County



Dr. Wilma Wooten, San Diego County public health officer, said the county has protocols in place to deal with infectious disease.



"The risk of infection for the general public is minimal," Wooten added. "If you have not traveled to an area where the virus has been detected or had close contact with a patient who tested positive for this type of coronavirus, the risk of infection is very low."

The World Health Organization has declared the outbreak sparked by a new virus in China that has spread to more than a dozen countries a global emergency after the number of cases spiked more than tenfold in a week, including the record number of deaths in 24 hours reported Friday.

China counted 9,692 confirmed cases with a death toll of 213, including 43 new fatalities. The vast majority of the cases have been in Hubei province and its provincial capital, Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak.

No deaths have been reported outside China.

The U.N. health agency defines an international emergency as an “extraordinary event” that constitutes a risk to other countries and requires a coordinated international response.

With that person being cleared, San Diego County has no other patients under investigation for the coronavirus, according to the HHSA.



As of Thursday evening, there were six confirmed cases of the coronavirus in the United States, including one each in Los Angeles and Orange counties.



According to the CDC, the symptoms of coronavirus are fever, cough and a shortness of breath or difficulty breathing. The incubation period is hard to pin down, with health officials saying symptoms can show up in infected individuals in a few as two days or as many as 14 days after exposure.

Health experts advise that many of the same preventive practices to guard against this novel strain of coronavirus are used to protect yourself against the flu, which is far more widespread.

"this is one of the worst flu seasons we have had in several years," said Dr. John Bradley of Rady Children's Hospital.

In San Diego County, the seasonal flu death count has risen to 39, compared to 24 the same time last year. So far this season, there has been just under 12,000 confirmed cases.

Local health officials urge frequent hand washing and other preventive practices.

"In fact, if you are not vaccinated and you are concerned about the coronavirus, the best thing you can do is practice those things and get a vaccination," said Dr. Eric McDonald, the county's Medical Director of Epidemiology and Immunizations Services.