Visitors wearing protective face masks pose for a photo along the Bund in Shanghai, Thursday, Jan. 30, 2020. China counted 170 deaths from a new virus Thursday and more countries reported infections, including some spread locally, as foreign evacuees from China's worst-hit region returned home to medical observation and even isolation. (AP Photo)

BEIJING (AP) — The Latest on the outbreak of a new virus from China (all times local):

11 p.m.

Russia is closing its land border with China, similar to steps taken by Mongolia and North Korea, to guard against a new viral outbreak.

Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin issued the decree Thursday, ordering the 2,600-mile land border with China closed starting Friday. It had been de facto closed because of the Lunar New Year holiday, but Russian authorities said the closure would be extended until March 1.

Train traffic between the countries was halted except for one train connecting Moscow and Beijing. But no decision has been made about air traffic between Russia and China. Some countries have reduced flights and airlines have halted them because of the new virus that has sickened thousands in central China.

Russia has not confirmed any cases of the virus. The dozens of cases outside China mostly have been in people who visited Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak.

___

10 p.m.

A group of eminent experts says the world needs to boost preparedness for outbreaks like the new virus in China, notably through more funding to lesser developed countries.

The Global Preparedness Monitoring Board has urged governments — even in countries that have not been affected by the new coronavirus —to “urgently dedicate resources to building their essential preparedness capacities,” and wants researchers to accelerate development of vaccines, diagnostics and treatments.

It said donors should “financially support lower resourced countries.”

The board, co-sponsored by the World Bank and World Health Organization, started operating last March and its members include U.S. immunologist Dr. Anthony Fauci; Director-General of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention George Gao; and Russian Health Minister Veronika Skvortsova.

The group issued a statement Thursday expressing concern “that many countries remain unprepared” and urging leaders to act immediately to ensure they have what's necessary to respond to the virus.

___

10 p.m.

South Korea has sent a chartered plane to China to bring home people from the center of the new coronavirus outbreak.

The aircraft departed Thursday night en route to Wuhan Airport. Several countries are trying to arrange similar flights to get their citizens out of the city.

When the plane returns, the South Korean returnees will be quarantined in one of two temporary living facilities for 14 days. Residents of Asan and Jincheon strongly protested the government's decision to quarantine the returnees in their hometowns.

Second Vice Foreign Minister Lee Tae-ho said the returnees “are essentially asymptomatic” so the government was trying to bring them home while strengthening safeguards.

Lee also said the government was stepping up coordination with China to return other South Koreans who wanted to return home as well.

___

9:30 p.m.

Indonesia's government says it is preparing to evacuate nearly 250 Indonesians from China's Hubei province due to a viral outbreak.

An official statement from his office said President Joko Widodo issued the instructions for the evacuation after a Cabinet meeting Thursday.

“The Chinese government is ready to facilitate the repatriation of Indonesian citizens from areas affected" by a new coronavirus, a foreign ministry statement said. Several other countries have made similar plans.

The government said it was making domestic preparations and that an Indonesian Embassy team in China was helping facilitate with travel and documents.

Indonesia was going to send two Boeing 737s and a military C130 Hercules aircraft for the evacuation, which Health Minister Terawan Agus Putranto said was expected to be done on Saturday.

___

9: 20 p.m.

Britain says a delayed repatriation flight for 200 U.K. nationals in Wuhan will take off from the Chinese city on Friday.

Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab says Chinese authorities have confirmed that the evacuation flight can leave at 0500 local time.

The U.K.-government chartered plane had been due to return to Britain on Thursday, but the flight was delayed by because permissions form the Chinese government had not come through.

The returning Britons will be quarantined for 14 days on arrival.

___

9 p.m.

Singapore has reported three more cases of a new virus, all involving women from the Chinese city hardest-hit in the outbreak.

Story continues