The first Briton to contract coronavirus in Wuhan claims he shook off the deadly illness with a hot toddy after refusing antibiotics.

Connor Reed, a 25-year-old English teacher from Wales, was stricken by the virus around two months ago. He had taken himself to hospital in the Chinese city after struggling to breathe with a severe cough.

Mr Reed, from Llandudno, said: 'I used the inhaler which helped control the cough and drank a hot whisky with honey until that ran out.'

He told The Sun: 'It's an old fashioned remedy but it seemed to do the trick. I did refuse to take the antibiotics the doctors prescribed me because I didn't want to take any medicines.'

Connor Reed, a 25-year-old English teacher from Wales, was stricken by the virus around two months ago. He had taken himself to the hospital in the Chinese city after struggling to breathe with a severe cough.

Mr Reed, who has been in China for the last three years and in Wuhan for the last six months, was discharged from the Zhongnan University Hospital in the city.

But it was only after he had been out of the hospital for two weeks that doctors told him he'd been suffering from coronavirus.

Mr Reed added that the Foreign Office were 'disinterested' when he told them about his infection.

He told The Sun: 'They kept asking if I wanted a place on a flight out but I said no. I'll stick it out here. I am proof coronavirus can be beaten.'

Mr Reed says his boss has told him that they will get back to work in two weeks, but he is not as certain.

ndonesians who arrived from Wuhan, China, are sprayed with antiseptic at Hang Nadim Airport in Batam, Indonesia, on Sunday

He described Wuhan as a ghost town with supermarkets running out of groceries, pharmacies out of medicine and masks.

China updated the death toll from the coronavirus outbreak to 361 on Monday, with an additional 2,829 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, bringing the total to 17,205.

A hospital specially built to handle coronavirus patients in Wuhan is expected to open today, just ten days after construction began. A second hospital is set to open soon after.