This page was first published on 27 January, and updated on 8 March.

BANGKOK

The number of countries reporting coronavirus infections continues to climb, as health authorities rush to contain its spread.

The emergence of outbreak clusters in three key hotspots outside China – Iran, Italy, and South Korea – is fuelling fears that the virus is gaining a global foothold and posing a threat to countries with weak health systems and large refugee and migrant populations.

Since mid-February, dozens of countries or territories have reported new coronavirus infections linked to people travelling from Italy or Iran. Infections in South Korea also continue to rise, driven by an outbreak among church members in the city of Daegu.

Global confirmed cases of the coronavirus breached the 105,000 mark by 8 March, including more than 3,500 deaths. Roughly 90 countries or territories have reported infections. Most of the cumulative cases and deaths are in mainland China, but there are now far more new daily infections being reported outside China than in it.

The illness caused by the virus is officially known as Covid-19, short for "coronavirus disease 2019".

More than 80 percent of China’s cases are found in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province and the outbreak's epicentre. Chinese authorities first publicly reported the emergence of a new respiratory illness with pneumonia-like symptoms in Wuhan on 31 December. The new coronavirus rapidly reached every province or region in mainland China before peaking in early February; cases have been on a steady decline since then.

Outside China, however, cases continue to multiply. Beyond Asia, confirmed cases have reached the Middle East, Africa, Europe, North and South America, the Caribbean, and Australia and New Zealand. After recording only a handful of cases for weeks, infections are beginning to rise in large, populous nations like Russia and India.

Egypt, Algeria, Nigeria, Tunisia, Morocco, South Africa, Cameroon, Togo, and Senegal have recorded confirmed cases. Testing is underway in other African nations.

The World Health Organisation has launched a $675 million response plan aimed at helping countries with weaker health systems get ready. It has declared the virus outbreak a global health emergency – known as a public health emergency of international concern, or PHEIC.

Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the WHO's director-general, called for "aggressive preparedness" but said some countries were not taking the threat seriously enough.

"This is not a drill," he said. "This is not the time to give up. This is not a time for excuses."

Why is there disagreement about global containment efforts?

There are unanswered questions about the virus itself and how to contain it.

The WHO says at least 72 countries have erected some form of travel restrictions. Many jurisdictions have stepped up health screenings at major airports and borders.

But there’s disagreement among public health professionals about whether border shutdowns and screenings are effective – or even counterproductive.

The WHO says border closures and travel restrictions likely delayed the spread of the virus but did not prevent it. Public health experts say border closures can exacerbate outbreaks by driving migration underground – away from public health systems.

The WHO has been cautious about border restrictions and even screenings when taking the rare step of declaring global health emergencies.

The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control says the effectiveness of coronavirus entry screening is “low” – its models estimated that three quarters of cases would go undetected.

Separate estimates by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine found thermal scanning might only flag one in every five arriving passengers infected with the virus.

Just as important are public education and robust medical follow-up procedures to ensure people who do develop symptoms know to seek out healthcare – and that healthcare staff know the signs and what to do. The Lancet medical journal has urged that frontline clinics – not just higher-level disease-control centres – are “armed” with diagnostic kits.

The WHO has been cautious about border restrictions and even screenings when taking the rare step of declaring global health emergencies.

When the WHO declared a PHEIC for the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo last year, it warned against shutting borders or imposing travel restrictions.

“Such measures are usually implemented out of fear and have no basis in science,” the WHO said at the time. “They push the movement of people and goods to informal border crossings that are not monitored, thus increasing the chances of the spread of disease.”

Under international health regulations, countries are obligated to justify their emergency border restrictions with the WHO. At least 23 have done so, but it’s unclear what, if any, actions the agency will take.

Are there undetected cases?

The outbreak’s rapid evolution means that researchers have been rushing to study the virus in real time – and revising early estimates that become obsolete by the day.

Much of this research was focused on China, but attention is now pivoting as cases surge elsewhere. Iran has announced more than 5,000 confirmed cases since mid-February, but critics have accused Iranian authorities of downplaying or concealing the extent of the outbreak.

"The lack of identified Covid-19 cases in countries with far closer travel ties to Iran suggests that cases in these countries are likely being missed, rather than being truly absent."

One study published by Canadian researchers on 25 February estimated there were actually 18,300 infections in Iran in February, based on confirmed cases linked to travellers from Iran in Canada, Lebanon, and the United Arab Emirates. The study, based on calculations including airline traffic data, also concluded that nearer countries like Syria are likely to have infections despite not reporting cases.

"The lack of identified Covid-19 cases in countries with far closer travel ties to Iran suggests that cases in these countries are likely being missed, rather than being truly absent," the researchers said. "This is concerning, both for public health in Iran itself, and because of the high likelihood for outward dissemination of the epidemic to neighbouring countries with lower capacity to respond to infectious diseases epidemics."

Health experts warn that all such studies are based on models that rely on incomplete data and assumptions – useful for estimating risk or potential spread, but far from definitive.

il/ag