More than 20 days have passed since the Chinese Government launched an all-out battle against the novel coronavirus pneumonia on January 20, and the campaign has now entered a critical stage. Since February 8, the number of recovered patients discharged from the hospital has been rising rapidly.

The government is doing its best to hospitalize all suspected cases and put all close contacts in isolation for observation. The spread of the virus is being contained, making massive infection in the future unlikely. Victory is on the horizon, as long as the anti-virus measures continue to be well implemented.

Great institutional advantages have emerged during this battle. After President Xi Jinping urged resolute efforts to contain the epidemic, the entire country has been strategizing as in a chess game, with all localities activating first-level public health emergency responses. Under the uniformed command and coordination of the Central Government, the whole country has strengthened epidemic control efforts. Every artery in Chinese society is playing its due role in this battle, something that would be impossible in most other countries.

More than 11,000 medical workers from across the country have been sent to the epicenter of Wuhan as of February 10; Huoshenshan and Leishenshan hospitals, the two makeshifts with a total of 2,600 beds for infected patients, were each completed in 10 days; mobile cabin hospitals with thousands of beds were built to treat patients with mild symptoms; hotels, training centers and local college dormitories have been temporarily converted into medical facilities with equipment and professionals for isolated treatment of suspected patients or medical observation of close contacts.

After the outbreak, Chinese scientists isolated its strain in record time, lending immeasurable support to the fight against the epidemic. The Chinese Government immediately shared information of the virus with the World Health Organization and other countries, making contributions to international anti-virus cooperation. It has been widely praised by the international community for its openness and transparency in the anti-virus fight.

While tightening epidemic control, China is working to maintain a stable and orderly daily life for people, as well as regular production. Food supplies are ensured, production restarted in early February, and fees, rents and taxes were cut to support businesses. After a temporary pause, the locomotive of the second largest world economy is moving forward again.

Chinese people will remember the Spring Festival of 2020 forever, not only because of the epidemic, but also for the perseverance and solidarity shown in the battle against the virus and the longing for a bright future for all.