Texas A&M student tests negative for coronavirus

A lab assistant works on samples after an AP interview with Christian Drosten, director of the institute for virology of Berlin's Charite hospital on his researches on the coronavirus in Berlin, Germany, Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020. less A lab assistant works on samples after an AP interview with Christian Drosten, director of the institute for virology of Berlin's Charite hospital on his researches on the coronavirus in Berlin, Germany, ... more Photo: Michael Sohn, STF / Associated Press Photo: Michael Sohn, STF / Associated Press Image 1 of / 5 Caption Close Texas A&M student tests negative for coronavirus 1 / 5 Back to Gallery

A Texas A&M University graduate student who was suspected of showing symptoms of coronavirus does not have the deadly pneumonia-like virus, university officials said Sunday.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention told Texas A&M officials Sunday that samples tested negative for the respiratory virus. The strain of coronavirus has sickened nearly 3,000 and killed 56 in China, officials said.

“We are very pleased with this news and grateful to those community caregivers involved for their expertise, proactive action and compassion demonstrated in treating our student,” said Martha Dannenbaum, director of Texas A&M’s Student Health Services. “We wish to thank the Brazos County Health District, which offered guidance and transparency throughout this case.”

On HoustonChronicle.com: State's second suspected coronvirus case under investigation at Baylor

The student visited an emergency room out of concern that he had been in Wuhan, not the severity of his symptoms, a Brazos County Health District official said.

A Baylor University student who recently traveled to China is also being tested by federal health officials for a possible case of the virus. The student is experiencing mild symptoms and has been isolated as a precaution, Baylor officials said Friday.

Coronaviruses are a group of viruses that may produce respiratory illnesses in some people, according to the CDC. Strains that occur in animals may evolve and infect humans, such as the 2003 SARS and 2012 MERS outbreaks, and can be fatal.

Health care providers in Brazos County are still aware of public health guidance about the virus.

There are five reported cases of the virus in the United States as of Sunday. Affected patients were located in Los Angeles and Orange counties in California, Washington state, Maricopa County, Arizona and Chicago, Illinois and have been isolated during treatment. All had traveled from the Chinese city of Wuhan, which has been the city hardest hit by the outbreak.

U.S. health officials said Sunday it’s likely more cases will be reported in the coming weeks, but said the risk of the virus spreading in the U.S. is “low.”

“For the general public, no additional precautions are recommended at this time beyond the simple daily precautions that everyone should always take,” the CDC said in a statement Sunday.

Five major U.S. airports have began conducting public health screenings for the virus. Houston’s George W. Bush Intercontinental Airport has not begun screenings, but has posted flyers around security checkpoints advising travelers going to and from Wuhan to watch for symptoms of sickness and avoid animal markets, touching live or dead animals and handling animal products.

Travelers should avoid all “non-essential” travel to Hubei province in China, where Wuhan is located, officials said.

This report contains material from wire services.

gwendolyn.wu@chron.com