Home | News | General | Coronavirus: WHO declares global health emergency as killer disease spreads to 18 countries

- The WHO declares global health emergency over fast-spreading coronavirus which has now spread to at least 18 countries

- Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director-general of the WHO expresses concerns about the virus spreading to countries with weaker health systems

- The WHO chief discloses that coronavirus has so far infected more than 8,200 people across the world

The World Health Organization (WHO) has declared a global health emergency over the coronavirus which has killed at least 171 people in China and has now spread to at least 18 other countries.

The declaration was made by Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director-general of the WHO at the organisation's Geneva headquarters on Thursday, January 30, The BBC reports.

Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director-general of the WHO disclosed that coronavirus has so far infected more than 8,200 people across the world.

Source: UGC

"The main reason for this declaration is not what is happening in China but what is happening in other countries," said WHO chief said.

He expressed concerns about the virus spreading to countries with weaker health systems and which are ill-prepared to deal with the disease.

Panic in Nigeria as FG issues red alert, bans citizens from travelling to China as coronavirus spreads

He commended the Chinese authorities for the extraordinary measures they have taken to prevent the virus from spreading.

According to the CNBC, the Tedros disclosed that coronavirus has so far infected more than 8,200 people across the world.

He said the global community must act together to stop the fast-spreading coronavirus. He urged the public to remain calm, saying the WHO wasn't recommending measures that unnecessarily interfere with international trade or travel.

PAY ATTENTION: Install our latest app for Android, read the best news on Nigeria’s #1 news app

In another report, about four persons have been confirmed dead with not less than 15 others receiving treatment in the Oye-Obi in Obi local government area of Benue state.

According to Andyson Egbodo, the new president of Igede national youths council, each of the deceased showed the same symptoms which are headache, internal heat, diarrhoea, vomiting, stomach ache, weakness of the body and swollen stomach.

This is one way Coronavirus can enter Nigeria - Health minister

Speaking on Wednesday, January 29, Egbodo said that a medical team has been sent to the local government area to tackle the disease and prevent its spread.

Still on health, the Nigerian Senate has officially reacted to the spread of the deadly coronavirus globally.

Senator Chukwuka Utazi representing Enugu North senatorial district on Thursday, January 30 moved a motion on the coronavirus outbreak and preventive response towards stemming its spread in Nigeria.

The recommendations by the red chambers are to ensure that the viral coronavirus does not come into Nigeria.

Similarly, the life-threatening spread of the dreaded epidemic, Coronavirus, the government of Russia has shut down its border with China.

Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin on Thursday, January 30, signed an order to immediately close the border between both nations, Euronews reports.

Before the rather drastic decision was taken, Russian president Vladimir Putin has directed his officials to do whatever it takes to prevent the spread of the disease into the country.

Nigerian government speaks on status of coronavirus in country as fear spreads across the world

Meanwhile, billionaire business magnate and philanthropist Bill Gates has promised to donate 1.8 billion naira to help fight the spread of coronavirus in Africa. Gates through his foundation, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, said he would remit a total of 3.6 billion naira, which would be divided equally between China and Africa.

The N1.8 billion allocated for Africa will be used to create centres for disease control and prevention for screening and crisis preparedness in countries that will be deemed to be at high risk of being infected with the dreaded virus.

NAIJ.com (naija.ng) -> Legit.ng We have updated to serve you better.

Nigeria’s health system is very very bad - Kiki Omeili | Legit TV

[embedded content]

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM: General

Loading...