Advertisement

Felicity Huffman and her oldest daughter were spotted arriving at New York City's John F. Kennedy Airport in medical face masks amid the coronavirus crisis.

The Desperate Housewives actress, 56, - who was released from a short 11 day prison sentence on October 25 - was seen pulling her suitcase along with 19-year-old Sophia who became embroiled her mother's college admissions legal drama last year.

The pair were bundled up for the winter weather, and donned matching blue face masks to try and prevent themselves catching the deadly coronavirus as the US confirms its first three cases. The virus has already spread to at least 12 countries and killed 56 since it was discovered in Wuhan, China.

Scroll down for video

Felicity Huffman (right), 56, and her oldest daughter Sophia Macy (left), 19, were seen arriving at John F. Kennedy Airport in New York, New York, wearing blue face masks as fears of the coronavirus spread

Sophia Macy (left) became collateral damage in Huffman's (right) federal legal drama after the actress paid a proctor $15,000 to boost the teenager's SAT scores

Huffman was slapped with a two week prison stay after previously paying a test proctor $15,000 to boost her daughters' SAT scores.

Sophia was reportedly intent on attending The Julliard School and was flew out two days after her mother's arrest for a final audition.

According to Huffman's husband and Sophia's father, William H. Macy, the top tier performing arts schools uninvited her from the process.

'She flew to the school two days after her mom's arrest for the final selections. When she landed, the school emailed her withdrawing their invitation to audition,' Macy wrote in a letter to a federal judge in a plea for leniency in Huffman's case.

After pleading guilty, Huffman (pictured) served 11 days of a two week prison sentence in California and was ordered to pay a $30,000 fine, as well as complete 250 hours of community service

Since the Varsity Blues scandal, the family has been working on rebuilding their once strong bond and going to therapy together to sort out their issues

Sophia Macy has begun to move on from the drama, having recently booked a gig acting on season two of Jordan Peele's Twilight Zone on CBS. It's unclear what role she'll play or how many episodes she'll be featured in.

'[Sophia] called us from the airport in hysterics, begging us to "do something, please, please do something",' he added.

Macy stood by Huffman throughout the ordeal, noting that his wife's relationship with her two daughters 'exploded' after the college admissions scandal went public.

Since the scandal, the family has been working on rebuilding their once strong bond and going to therapy together to sort out their issues.

Sophia appears to have made strides past the initial drama and following her parent's footsteps into acting.

It was revealed in January that Sophia has landed a gig on season two of Jordan Peele's Twilight Zone on CBS.

It's unclear what role she will play and how many episodes she will be featured in.

Macy continues to act as Frank Gallagher in the critically acclaimed show Shameless, and the couple's youngest daughter, Georgia, is set to attend Vassar University in in 2020.

Husband, William H. Macy (right), revealed that Huffman's (left) relationship with her two daughters has 'exploded' since the college admissions scandal and the family is working to rebuild their bond

Huffman has begun to move on as well by completing a mandated 250-hours of community service work, and a $30,000 fine, as a part of her punishment.

Since November, she has been putting in time at The Teen Project, a center in Los Angeles which serves at risk homeless and sex trafficked women.

Huffman will spend a year completing the community service work as court proceedings continue to work through the 53 people charged, like actress Lori Loughlin, in the explosive case.

While Huffman has pleaded guilty to the allegations, Loughlin and her husband Mossimo Giannulli maintain their innocence as they face three charges and potentially 45 years in jail.

Loughlin may be resigning to stint in jail as reports say she hired a prison expert to help her learn the ropes in case she's convicted.

News of the evacuation came as the number of confirmed coronavirus cases worldwide jumped to 1,396 on Saturday morning, including 42 fatalities. Patients are seen undergoing treatment at Wuhan Central Hospital

The new virus comes from a large family of what are known as coronaviruses, some causing nothing worse than a cold. It causes cold- and flu-like symptoms, including cough and fever and, in more severe case, shortness of breath. It can worsen to pneumonia, which can be fatal. Most of China's provinces and cities activated a Level 1 public health alert, the highest in a four-tier system, the state-owned China Daily newspaper reported Saturday (pictured, medics at Wuhan Red Cross Hospital)

Meanwhile, health officials and several countries are rushing to get handle on the coronavirus as it continues to spread across the globe.

CONFIRMED US CORONAVIRUS CASES 1. Man in Washington state The first US coronavirus case was confirmed on Tuesday, January 21. The patient - a Washington man in his 30s who lives in Snohomish County - has been quarantined at Providence Regional Medical Center in Everett, outside of Seattle. The man had traveled by himself from Wuhan but did not visit any of the markets at the epicenter of the outbreak. He reportedly had no symptoms upon arrival in the US on January 15, but after reading about the outbreak online and developing symptoms, he contacted his doctor. The patient allegedly sought treatment on January 16 and was tested the following day. He is said to be in stable condition. He is being treated in a bio-containment room by a few staff members and a robot to limit the spread of the virus. The robot has a stethoscope attached to take the man's vitals and a large screen so doctors can communicate with him, Dr George Diaz, chief of the infectious disease division at the Providence Regional Medical Center, told CNN. 'The nursing staff in the room move the robot around so we can see the patient in the screen, talk to him,' Dr Diaz told the network. Officials have also been monitoring more than a dozen people the man reportedly came into contact with in the five days between when he arrived back in the US and when he was diagnosed. 2. Woman in Chicago The CDC confirmed the second US case on Friday - a 60-year-old woman in Chicago, Illinois, who had traveled to Wuhan in late December. The woman, who has not been named, arrived at O'Hare International Airport on January 13 but did not begin experiencing symptoms until several days later. Health officials say the woman appears to be 'well' and in stable condition. The unidentified patient is currently in isolation at St. Alexius Medical Center in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. 3. Patient in California Orange County Health Care Agency announced that a patient in California had tested positive for novel coronavirus. The agency said the patient had traveled from Wuhan and reached out to the health care agency prior to being diagnosed. They were given guidance to avoiding exposing the public to the virus while waiting for test results. 'The individual has now been transported to a local hospital and is in isolation in good condition,' added the agency who did not identify the patient. 'In consultation with the CDC and the California Department of Public Health, the HCA is following up directly with all individuals who have had close contact with the case and are at risk of infection.'

In North America, there are four confirmed cases: California, Washington, Chicago and Canada.

More than 2,000 cases of the virus have been confirmed by several governments worldwide as at least 56 people - most of them in China - have died.

Orange County Health Care Agency announced that a patient in California had tested positive for novel coronavirus.

The agency said the patient had traveled from Wuhan and reached out to the health care agency prior to being diagnosed. They were given guidance to avoiding exposing the public to the virus while waiting for test results.

'The individual has now been transported to a local hospital and is in isolation in good condition,' added the agency who did not identify the patient.

Canada confirmed its first case Saturday, as a man in his 50s was quarantined in Toronto, while two cases have been confirmed in the United States - one in Chicago and another in Snohomish County, Washington.

News of the virus spreading into North America comes as the United States government warns it won't have enough seats on a rescue plane to evacuate all US citizens from the Chinese city of Wuhan amid a deadly outbreak of coronavirus - and the jet won't even arrive for two days.

The US consulate is reaching out to all Americans registered as living in Wuhan - considered to be the epicenter of the deadly outbreak - to offer them a seat on a charter flight scheduled for Tuesday.

A source familiar with the chartered evacuation flight told CNN that roughly 1,000 Americans live in Wuhan, and those who choose to leave will be forced to pay for their spot on the Boeing 767 jet, which carries around 230 people.

The State Department released a statement late on Saturday which read: 'The Department of State is making arrangements to relocate its personnel stationed at the US Consulate General in Wuhan to the United States.

'We anticipate that there will be limited capacity to transport private US citizens on a reimbursable basis on a single flight leaving Wuhan Tianhe International Airport on January 28, 2020 and proceeding directly to San Francisco.'

Since space is limited, the government says that 'priority will be given to individuals at greater risk from coronavirus.'

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has said it is involved in the efforts to help Americans leave Wuhan.

'Department of State has the lead for the safe and expedient ordered departure of all US citizens from Wuhan, China,' CDC spokeswoman Kristen Nordlund told CNN.

'CDC is aware and coordinating in the planning.'

Horrifying videos posted to social media show chaos at hospitals and doctors collapsing on the floor in Wuhan as Chinese authorities struggle to gain control of the epidemic.

Washington was given approval for the operation from China's Foreign Ministry and other government agencies following negotiations in recent days.

The US also plans to temporarily shut its Wuhan consulate, it said.

Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre in Toronto, Canada, said it is 'caring for a patient who has a confirmed case of the novel coronavirus that originated in Wuhan, China.'

Officials said the man is his 50s and recently flew from Wuhan, China to Guangzhou, China and then on to Toronto on January 23.

'He really wasn't in Toronto very long. He wasn't feeling well. I think he was at home and the people that live with him are in self isolation,' said Dr. Barbara Yaffe, Ontario's Associated Chief Medical Officer.

Meanwhile, a suburban Chicago hospital is currently treating a 60-year-old woman who is a confirmed carrier of the virus after she returned from Wuhan.

The unidentified patient is currently in isolation at St. Alexius Medical Center in Hoffman Estates, Illinois.

It came days after America's first confirmed case - a Washington man in his 30s who lives in Snohomish County, who has been quarantined at Providence Regional Medical Center in Everett, outside of Seattle.

Cities across America are on high alert amid the escalating coronavirus crisis as 63 people in 22 states are suspected to have contracted the deadly strain.

The outbreak of the new virus originated in China, where it has infected more than 1,975 people and killed 56, and has spread worldwide.

Australia and Malaysia reported their first cases Saturday - four each - and Japan, its third. France confirmed three cases Friday, the first in Europe.

In Canada, while the case has been confirmed by a test in Toronto, officials said it has yet to complete separate testing by the federal government's National Collaborating Centre for Infectious Diseases in Winnipeg. The illness will officially be fully confirmed once it completes that testing.

Dr. David Williams, Ontario's Chief Medical Officer of Health, said they are 95% sure it is the virus.

'This is the first presumptive confirmed case,' said Williams.

'While we are convinced our tests do demonstrate positivity there is confirmation at the national medical laboratory in Winnipeg and once that is done is is a fully confirmed case.'

The man is now in stable condition in isolation. He was admitted to hospital a day after his flight to Toronto.

As of Saturday evening, there are three confirmed cases and 64 suspected cases of coronavirus in the United States and Canada

More than 1,300 people have been infected globally with the virus traced to a seafood market in the central city of Wuhan that was illegally selling wildlife

Coronavirus: What we know so far What is this virus? The virus has been identified as a new type of coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large family of pathogens, most of which cause mild respiratory infections such as the common cold. But coronaviruses can also be deadly. SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, is caused by a coronavirus and killed hundreds of people in China and Hong Kong in the early 2000s. Can it kill? Yes. Seventeen people have so far died after testing positive for the virus. What are the symptoms? Its symptoms are typically a fever, cough and trouble breathing, but some patients have developed pneumonia, a potentially life-threatening infection that causes inflammation of the small air sacs in the lungs. People carrying the novel coronavirus may only have mild symptoms, such as a sore throat. They may assume they have a common cold and not seek medical attention, experts fear. How is it detected? The virus's genetic sequencing was released by scientists in China to the rest of the world to enable other countries to quickly diagnose potential new cases. This helps other countries respond quickly to disease outbreaks. To contain the virus, airports are detecting infected people with temperature checks. But as with every virus, it has an incubation period, meaning detection is not always possible because symptoms have not appeared yet. How did it start and spread? The first cases identified were among people connected to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan. Cases have since been identified elsewhere which could have been spread through human-to-human transmission. What are countries doing to prevent the spread? Countries in Asia have stepped up airport surveillance. They include Japan, South Korea, Thailand, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and Philippines. Australia and the US are also screening patients for a high temperature, and the UK announced it will screen passengers returning from Wuhan. Is it similar to anything we've ever seen before? Experts have compared it to the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). The epidemic started in southern China and killed more than 700 people in mainland China, Hong Kong and elsewhere

It appears that all of the patients currently awaiting test results after showing symptoms consistent with the virus - such as fever, cough and runny nose - had either visited Wuhan recently or were in contact with someone who visited the city.

Those patients are believed to have all been isolated either in hospitals or in their homes to reduce the risk of exposing others.

US health officials warned on Friday that the flu or other respiratory illnesses could complicate efforts to identify additional cases.

'We're really working to understand the full spectrum of the illness with this coronavirus,' Dr Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases Messonnier, said at a briefing.

'The problem with this time of year is it's cold and flu season and there are lots of cold and respiratory infections circulating.'

The CDC has recommended that anyone with symptoms contact a health-care provider before seeking treatment so the appropriate precautionary measures can be put in place.

The agency is trying to expedite screenings by providing up tests to state health officials.

It currently takes the CDC about four to six hours to make a diagnosis once a sample arrives at its lab.

Two people from Minnesota and three people from Michigan are currently being tested. Also being monitored are two college students, one from Texas A&M University and another from Tennessee Tech University.

The US government is planning to evacuate 1,000 American citizens from the coronavirus-stricken Chinese city of Wuhan. Photos from inside the intensive care unit at Zhongnan Hospital in Wuhan show medical workers caring for critically-ill patients this week (above)

Medical staff members wearing protective clothing to help stop the spread of a deadly virus which began in the city, walk at the Wuhan Red Cross Hospital in China

Public health entry screenings are currently taking place Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, Chicago O'Hare International Airport, Los Angeles International Airport, John F Kennedy International Airport in New York and San Francisco International Airport.

The screening begins with a survey to determine whether a traveler shows possible coronavirus symptoms and whether they visited the meat or seafood markets in Wuhan that have been tied to the outbreak.

If they appear to have any symptoms associated with coronavirus, travelers are taken to on-site triage for further examination and a temperature check.

The State Department issued its highest travel warning for Wuhan on Thursday, advising Americans to not travel to the region.

The level 4 warning puts the city on par with countries such as Afghanistan, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Iran, Iraq, Libya, Mali, North Korea, Somalia, South Sudan, Syria, Venezuela and Yemen.

Some 57 million people across 15 Chinese cities are now on lockdown as officials work to slow the virus' rapid spread.

The coronavirus strain, known as 2019-nCov, is believed to have emerged from illegally-traded wildlife at a seafood market in Wuhan, a city 700 miles south of the capital of Beijing.

Dramatic video showed people collapsing on sidewalks in Wuhan, the Chinese city where the outbreak originated

While preliminary research suggests the virus was passed to humans from snakes, Chinese health officials reported this week that some cases have been caused by human-to-human transmission increasing the risk of it spreading.

Experts don't yet know how quickly the disease can spread from person-to-person, but a World Health Organisation (WHO) official has said it is transmitted faster than previously thought.

'We are now seeing second and third generation spread,' Dr David Heymann, the chairperson of a WHO committee gathering data on the virus, said Thursday.

Third generation means that someone who became infected after handling animals at the market in Wuhan, China, could transmit the virus to someone else, who then passes it to a third person.

Heymann said the virus initially appeared to spread only by very close contact that would typically occur within a family, such as hugging, kissing or sharing eating utensils.

He said new evidence suggests more distant contact could spread the virus, such as if an infected person were to sneeze or cough near someone else's face.

Heymann noted that there is no evidence indicated that the virus is airborne and could spread across a room.

Last week, US officials began funneling all passengers arriving in the US from Wuhan on direct or connecting flights through five major airports - including O'Hare (pictured) to ensure that they are screened