BEIJING: The UK. confirmed its first two cases of coronavirus on Friday (Jan 31), while the US and Japan advised citizens to avoid travelling to China. Singapore and Vietnam suspended visas issued to Chinese citizens. US futures dropped alongside stocks in Europe and Asia as the virus continued to spread.



The World Health Organisation had on Thursday declared the outbreak a global health emergency. Cases have now soared to more than 9,950 globally, higher than the number of officially reported cases during the SARS epidemic.



Confirmed cases in China rise to 9,809 from 7,700 a day earlier. At least two-thirds of China’s economy to stay shut next week.



Goldman sees virus hurting US economic growth although China markets set to reopen on Monday.



Regions with a rapid spread of new confirmed cases can lengthen holidays, Premier Li Keqiang said. Li also called for staggered travel for people returning from holiday.



Meanwhile, the Italian cabinet declared a state of emergency, freeing up state resources to combat the virus. Two Chinese nationals are being treated in isolation in Rome, after 18 tourists from the country were taken to a hospital, health authorities reported.



Singapore also has suspended visas of Chinese citizens with immediate effect. This includes those already issued, according to government officials at a briefing Friday. Vietnam has also ordered a suspension of visas for Chinese tourists.



Pakistan has stopped all direct flights to and from China until Feb. 2 and plans to delay opening its northern border with China.



Two patients in England, who are members of the same family, tested positive for coronavirus, the government said. The patients are receiving specialist care in Newcastle.



"We are already working rapidly to identify any contacts the patients had, to prevent further spread,” Chief Medical Officer Chris Whitty said.



The government put the mortality rate from the new coronavirus at 2%.



Meanwhile, all passengers who boarded a flight from Wuhan are well, the U.K. government said.



Travellers from China with symptoms are being asked to self-isolate for 14 days.



Hong Kong, on the other hand, is extending school holidays till March 2, depending on the coronavirus situation, Chief Executive Carrie Lam said in a briefing. The government will step up scrutiny of tourists from Hubei province, including sending them into quarantine.



Lam again dismissed calls to close Hong Kong’s borders with China, and asked the city’s medical staff to reconsider any plans to strike.



The coronavirus outbreak will cut US economic growth by 0.4 percentage point in the first quarter as the number of tourists from China declines and exports to the Asian nation slow, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.



About 7,000 passengers who’ve been kept on a cruise ship near Rome over fears of a virus outbreak on board were allowed to disembark on Friday morning.



Passengers on the ship owned by Carnival Corp., had been held in the port of Civitavecchia since Thursday morning, after one of them came down with fever and respiratory symptoms. Subsequent examinations showed the illness was not the new coronavirus. - Bloomberg

Article type: free User access status: