By John Ravelo Staff Reporter

SAIPAN, Northern Mariana Islands (August 5, 2001 – Saipan Tribune)---Suspicions are rife that the six Chinese nationals, who were on board the ill-fated boat that capsized off Tinian a week ago, were involved in human smuggling operations. The Department of Labor and Immigration has confirmed that one of them is an overstaying alien.

According to DOLI, one of the six Chinese has been staying in the Northern Marianas illegally for four years now.

Labor and Immigration Secretary Mark Zachares made the disclosure, although the department's legal counsel, Terrence Denigan, refused to comment to the media regarding his "active cases."

Zachares said one of the three survivors is actually under the department's custody. But he did not identify who among the three Chinese nationals -- Wen Jian Zheng, Quen Zhou and Mao-Zheng Lian -- was being held for overstaying in the CNMI for four years.

Meanwhile, three of the six Chinese remain missing since their overloaded boat capsized a week ago.

The three have been identified as Sujin Huaya, Zheng Hae and a certain Ana.

Mark Pearson, the Coast Guard's command center supervisor based in Guam, said a team aboard a US Air Force C-130 plane kept scouring the vicinity where the boat capsized late last week, despite the decision of local authorities to call off search operations Tuesday.

Pearson did not discount the possibility that the six Chinese were trying to sneak into Guam.

The Northern Marianas has reportedly been used as a jump-off point by human smuggling syndicates using Guam.

Less than two months ago, CNMI enforcement officers foiled an attempt to smuggle 14 Chinese nationals into Guam while the aliens were aboard a speedboat docked at the Smiling Cove Marina on Saipan.

DPS spokeswoman Cecilia Celes had said the six Chinese nationals left Tinian aboard the boat as early as 5:30 in the morning July 29, making their trip suspicious. The 17-foot vessel capsized ten minutes later due to overloading, since it cannot accommodate six people at a time.

The boat, owned by its captain, Zheng, was brought to the DPS' headquarters on Tinian after it was fished out from the sea.

For additional reports from The Saipan Tribune, go to PACIFIC ISLANDS REPORT News/Information Links: Newspapers/The Saipan Tribune.