news, national

A Sydney woman repeatedly said "no" as she was raped in a hotel room by a Chinese movie star and film producer, a jury has been told. Actor Yunxiang Gao and Chinese film producer Jing Wang have pleaded not guilty to multiple rape and indecent assault charges, arguing the woman consented to the sexual acts. The incident at Sydney's Shangri-La Hotel in the early hours of March 27 in 2018 is the subject of a retrial in Sydney's Downing Centre District Court. The retrial began on Monday and is expected to last four-to-five weeks. Gao and Wang, both 37, are alleged to have raped the woman following a night of drinking at a wrap party for a Chinese TV series filmed in Sydney. Crown prosecutor Phil Hogan said Wang came onto the alleged victim at a CBD karaoke bar and the affection "was very much in one direction only". A number of people returned to the Shangri-La where Wang was staying and the woman was told other members of the Chinese crew would be in his room. Gao then came into the room and allegedly kissed her and started undressing her. The woman would testify she said "no" and told the men she had her period. "She made it clear she was resisting and didn't want this to happen," Mr Hogan told the jury. The men then allegedly carried out various sexual acts against her will before Gao left and Wang again raped her. However, Gao's defence barrister, Murugan Thangaraj SC, said the woman had told differing versions of events to several people, including that she was dragged into the hotel room. "This was a lie," Mr Thangaraj said. Wang's barrister, Margaret Cunneen SC, said everything which happened in the hotel room was with the complainant's "very full and clear agreement". "There was no sexual assault of any kind," Ms Cunneen said on Monday. "The case involves no criminality and certainly no crimes of an extremely serious nature which have been alleged." Evidence will begin on Tuesday with a video replay of the complainant's testimony given at the first trial. Australian Associated Press

https://nnimgt-a.akamaihd.net/transform/v1/crop/frm/silverstone-feed-data/b8f9a84f-574c-4366-a3e0-b2518870acaa.jpg/r0_74_800_526_w1200_h678_fmax.jpg