A medical worker in protective gear checks a patient suspected of being ill with coronavirus at a community health station in Wuhan (Chinatopix via AP)

People who have returned to the UK from coronavirus-hit Wuhan in China should "self-isolate" even if they have no symptoms, the Health Secretary has said.

In a significant ramping up of the precautions in the UK around the virus, Matt Hancock said officials could not be 100% certain that the virus is not spread by people who are not displaying symptoms.

The move means around 1,500 people who have returned from Wuhan since January 10 should isolate themselves for 14 days from the date of leaving China for the UK.

One man has been tested for the virus in Northern Ireland, and proved negative. All 73 people tested in the UK have proved negative.

Mr Hancock told MPs in the Commons: "Coronaviruses do not usually spread if people don't have symptoms - but we cannot be 100% certain.

"We are therefore asking anyone in the UK who has returned from Wuhan in the last 14 days to self-isolate. Stay indoors and avoid contact with other people - and to contact NHS 111. If you are in Northern Ireland, phone your GP."

China has extended the Lunar New Year holiday in efforts to contain the coronavirus as the death toll rose to 81.

Hong Kong announced it would bar entry to visitors from the province at the centre of the outbreak following a warning the virus' ability to spread was growing.

The death toll rose yesterday when Hainan in the South China Sea reported its first fatality, an 80-year-old woman.

The spread of the illness is being watched around the globe, with a small number of cases appearing in several other countries. South Korea has confirmed its fourth case.

Public health officials in Canada said the wife of the man who is Canada's first case of the virus from China has also tested positive.

Scattered cases also have been confirmed in Thailand, Taiwan, Japan, the US, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, France, Canada and Australia.

Belfast Telegraph