"A husband and wife Chinese spy team were recently removed from a Level 4 Infectious Disease facility in Canada for sending pathogens to the Wuhan facility. The husband specialized in coronavirus research. #coronaviruschina #CoronaOutbreak."

— A tweet by @Jkylebass spreading erroneous information this week

The spread of the Wuhan Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) has led to growing fears over the dangerous spread of a pandemic around the world. At the same time, that fear has prompted the sharing of a huge amount of misinformation on social media and throughout the internet that is spreading fake news to citizens, thus making a difficult situation even worse.

On Jan. 25, a U.S. resident named Kyle Bass posted a tweet that suggested the husband and wife Chinese scientists who were removed from the Level 4 Infectious Disease facility last year — in Winnipeg, no less — were somehow connected to the spread of the 2019-nCoV coronavirus in China. The man also posted links to several CBC Manitoba stories about the two Chinese researchers after they were escorted out of the lab amid an RCMP investigation.

While it is true that the two scientists were the subject of an investigation, the Public Health Agency of Canada this week denied any connection between the National Microbiology Lab in Winnipeg and the two Chinese scientists.

"Baseless stories claiming that the two scientists are Chinese spies and that they smuggled the coronavirus to China’s only Level 4 lab in Wuhan last year have been spreading on all major social media platforms and on conspiracy theorist blogs," reported the CBC yesterday, adding that the conspiracy theory appeared to be based on a distorted reading of the CBC News reporting from last summer.

The Public Health Agency of Canada states that "the husband" in this case, Keding Cheng, who worked at the Winnipeg lab as a biologist, did not specialize in coronavirus research as claimed by @Jkylebass.

This is just one example of the rumours and fears that are spreading like wildfire around the world. The American news website Axios claimed yesterday that misinformation about the coronavirus is "testing governments, tech platforms and health officials — as well as a nervous public — in both the U.S. and China." Some of this information has come from private Facebook groups that have been created after the virus began to gain more media attention.

Meanwhile, Buzzfeed News has been busy exposing false information. Some of the fake news out there includes:

• Rumours that 112,000 people are dead from the virus.

JONATHAN HAYWARD/THE CANADIAN PRESS British Columbia Health Minister Adrian Dix looks on as Provincial Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry addresses the media during a news conference at the BC Centre of Disease Control in Vancouver B.C, Tuesday, January 28, 2020. Dix and Dr. Henry announced Tuesday that British Columbia has confirmed its first case of coronavirus and the person in question is being treated.

• That the Federal Emergency Measures Agency in the United States suggested enacting martial law to contain the coronavirus.

• A photo circulating of Chinese citizens protesting in Wuhan.

• Claims that vitamin C will cure or prevent a coronavirus infection (it won’t).

• Claims of the virus popping up on university campuses in Canada, such as Ryerson and McMaster.

• Even a WhatsApp message falsely claiming to show a list of Toronto schools affected by the coronavirus.

These are all fake assertions being spread by social media to scare the public and cause panic. And unfortunately, it has worked, to a degree. Fears over the coronavirus prompted a school board in Ontario to warn parents about racism against the Chinese community, even as a moderate panic ensues among citizens.

CTV reports that surgical face masks have been "flying off the shelves in several cities around Canada" since coronavirus reports started ramping up. Yet the World Health Organization maintains that the current coronavirus (SARS was also a coronavirus) has not turned into a global emergency. Yet.

Thus far, a 2019-nCoV virus tracking map operated by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University shows that as of 2 p.m. on Tuesday, there were only 4,690 confirmed cases of the virus around the world, including two in Canada. (Note that this does not include a third confirmed Canadian case in B.C. yesterday, news of which broke shortly before writing this editorial). The official worldwide death toll stood at 106.

It’s worth reminding the public that each year in Canada, it is estimated that ordinary influenza cases cause about 12,200 hospitalizations and about 3,500 deaths according to the Canadian government website’s public health page. In the United States, influenza kills 36,000 people and hospitalizes more than 200,000 each year, according to 2018 statistics. And yet, somehow, panic does not ensue among the populace as flu season approaches, and many people refuse to get seasonal flu vaccines.

The best approach for anyone concerned about the new coronavirus — or any contagious disease, really — is to look to official sources of verified information, such as the Canadian and Manitoba governments that have tried to keep the public up to date, the World Health Organization, which has a wealth of information on disease and epidemic control, and the local regional health authority, which is the first responder to any potential outbreak.

And while the public has given mainstream media less of its trust over the last decade, news sites like The Brandon Sun, CBC, CTV, the Winnipeg Free Press and other trustworthy national and international media use health information from verified sources.

It should go without saying, but unfortunately, it can’t — as interesting as they may be, comments made on Twitter, Facebook, TikTok and any other social media platform that does not reference factual information should be treated as suspect.

It’s the only way to stifle the rumour mill.