All the evacuees who have been quarantined at an Auckland navy base for two weeks are now being released.

Photo: RNZ / Dan Cook

New Zealanders and foreigners who have been quarantined at an Auckland navy base for two weeks have been released today after passing health checks this morning.

Two people were kept in quarantine and were tested for the virus but they have now been released.

"I have just literally got off the phone with the news that those people have been tested, and the tests have come back negative," Health Minister David Clark told Checkpoint.

Friends and family of the more than 150 people quarantined in Whangaparāoa have been gathering outside the base since this morning.

The group, including almost 60 foreign nationals, have been in quarantine since returning from China on a special charter flight following the outbreak of the Covid-19 coronavirus.

None of the group has become ill with the virus.

Photo: Supplied

Waiting outside the gates, Cory Xiao said he had not seen his partner and 7-year-old son for weeks.

"I feel nervous and excited. I'm happy to be here to wait for them, I've just waited so long. I'm not sure when they are going to come out, so I just wait here."

He said the family was planning a meal together.

"I miss them so much, like every day, I can't wait to see them."

Slow wifi and the lack of beer were the only complaints from those released from quarantine today.

The Health Ministry said, as this was the first time something like this had been done in New Zealand, the agencies involved were keen to get feedback from the residents.

Most were highly complimentary of the accommodation and food, which included dumplings and rice cakes for Chinese New Year.

One child wrote a special thanks to the Red Cross for bringing books, toys and supplies.

Another resident said they really enjoyed the leisure activities, "keeping fit and healthy while being in quarantine".

It may have been a bit too healthy for some, however, with one inmate noting morosely: "No beer".

Another complained the wifi was slow for a couple of days, although the Director General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield told the press conference that was fixed as quickly as possible.

Tomorrow eight New Zealanders from the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Japan will return home, via Australia, and will take up residency at the naval base.

They are expected to spend 14 days in quarantine following a coronavirus outbreak on board the ship.

Photo: RNZ / Dan Cook

The Westerdam - which had sixteen New Zealanders on board - was turned away by several countries but was able to dock and disembark in Cambodia this week.

Five New Zealanders who were on the ship arrived in Auckland yesterday, and another eight today.

Director-General of Health Ashley Bloomfield said everyone would go into self-isolation for 14 days.

He said they were assessed at the airport and would "be monitored on a daily basis by public health staff".

Dr Bloomfield added that two people who arrived yesterday showed symptoms of Corvid-19, but tests later turned up negative results.