You may also like these stories:

Beijing-based Koryo Tours said it was contacted by a business partner in North Korea about the measure on Tuesday, adding Pyongyang’s move may also apply to people traveling from China to North Korea on business.

BEIJING—North Korean authorities on Wednesday blocked foreign tourists crossing the border from China as a preventive measure after the outbreak of a new coronavirus in its neighbor, according to tourist companies.

Various photos depicting China's past relations with North Korea are on display in front of the Chinese Embassy in Pyongyang on Oct. 5, 2019, the eve of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the bilateral ties. / Kyodo

Various photos depicting China's past relations with North Korea are on display in front of the Chinese Embassy in Pyongyang on Oct. 5, 2019, the eve of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the bilateral ties. / Kyodo

Ex-EU Diplomat Reportedly Accused of Spying for China as Police Conduct Raids in Germany, Brussels

Fresh, Affordable and Just a Little Spicy: Jana Mon Serves up Myanmar’s Mon Cuisine in Yangon

Xi Jinping Calls for ‘Concrete Planning and Implementation’ of Chinese Projects Ahead of Myanmar Visit

Myanmar Court Set to Issue Warrant for US Man Who Failed to Attend Court in Cannabis Case

The Day When a US Medic was Jailed in Myanmar for Treason

Beyond the Cliché of ‘Pauk-Phaw’, China and Myanmar Need Each Other

What Will 2020 Mean for Myanmar’s Democracy?

What Will Xi Jinping’s Visit Mean for Myanmar’s Future?

Britain's Prince Harry Says ‘No Other Option’ But To Step Back

Chinese President’s Claim That Beijing Not Arming EAOs Met With Skepticism in Myanmar

No ‘Genocidal Intent’ in Security Operations in Rakhine State, Myanmar Commission Says

Myanmar’s National Dialogue Must Be for All NCA Signatories Ahead of Peace Summit, EAOs Say

Suu Kyi Economic Adviser: National Interest Must Come First When Deciding Large Chinese Investments in Myanmar

Myanmar President Sends Report on Massacres of Rohingya by Security Forces to Military Chief for More Prosecutions

Banana Ban and Meatless Menus, but How Green Is Davos Summit?

We do not encourage viewing this site in this width. Please increase the size of your window.