A newly identified coronavirus pandemic has been ravaging China over the past few days and it is now in other countries. The new virus is quite dangerous and the number of deaths continues to rise. For now, scientists are still trying to learn about this new virus and how to curtail its spread. Today, a combination of Chinese agencies released a high-resolution crystal structure of new Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) 3CL hydrolase. Before we look at the crystal structure, let us succinctly discuss this new virus.

According to livescience.com this is the latest update on the virus and its spread

“Update on Saturday, Jan. 26: A third case of the new virus has been confirmed in the U.S., this one in Orange County, California. There are an additional 323 confirmed cases of the new coronavirus infection and 13 additional deaths in Wuhan, where the virus originated, according to the Health Commission of Hubei Province. This news, along with the report of a virus-related death in Shanghai and another in the Henan Province, brings the total number of deaths linked to 2019-nCoV in China up to 56, according to The New York Times report. As of Sunday (Jan. 26), the total number of confirmed case of the rise has reached 1,975, according to the Times. In addition to the cases reported in China, reports of the infection have been confirmed in Australia, France, the U.S. and seven countries in Asia”.

What is a coronavirus?

According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that can cause respiratory illnesses such as the common cold. Most of us get the infection at some point in our lives but the symptoms are mild. This is is a common virus worldwide but usually among animals. However, a few of them also affect humans. In rare cases, as we have now, coronaviruses can evolve and spread from animals to humans. When this happens, the symptoms are quite severe and dangerous.

High-resolution crystal structure of the new Coronavirus 3CL hydrolase

The pneumonia epidemic from the new coronavirus 2019-nCoV continues to spread. There is now widespread discussion especially in China about the virus discoloration. This virus has a strong ability to broadcast, and a long latency period. This makes it difficult to find. So what does this “ghost” look like? Today, the Chinese Academy of Sciences’ Joint Anti-Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) Infection Joint Research Team announced the high levels of 2019-nCoV new coronavirus 3CL hydrolase Fractional crystal structure.

Relevant personnel of the team said that they are continuing their efforts to develop drugs to treat new pneumonia.

How have the Chinese tech industry helped with the 2019-nCoV so far

The Chinese technology industry (particularly smartphone makers) have done a whole lot to help the situation in Wuhan where the virus originated. Huawei is setting up 5G base stations quickly to help fight the virus in Wuhan. Lenovo has sent all the IT equipment needed to assist with the virus. Oppo, Huawei, and Xiaomi have donated not less than $4 million each to assist. Realme sent in about $100,000 to assist victims.