Sen. Richard Gordon on Monday urged health authorities to conduct a thorough screening and urged arriving passengers to declare if they visited Wuhan, China to prevent the spread of the “mysterious virus” in the Philippines.

“Given the significant number of workers from China, including those involved in POGO (Philippine offshore gaming operators) — it is prudent for the Philippines to ask these travelers to declare if they have traveled to Wuhan and if so, be requested to be subjected to screening and a temperature check with minimum inconvenience as they enter the country,” Gordon said through a text message.

But despite cases reported on the said “mysterious virus,” Gordon said that this should not cause panic.

“The cause of the “mystery” disease from Wuhan, China has not been determined and thus far, there has been no reported human-to-human transmission. Until the cause is known, there is no need for undue panic or anxiety. Meanwhile, the situation needs to be monitored and preparations should be in place in the event that the disease spreads,” he added.

The Bureau of Quarantine under the Department of Health was also acknowledged by the lawmaker for being alert in tightening the screening on all incoming passengers.

In a statement, Health Secretary Franciso Duque III ordered strict monitoring of all passengers entering the country as there were reports of mysterious disease from China.

Duque also urged the public and those who have traveled in China to seek immediate medical consultation especially if they experience flu-like symptoms.

According to reports, the disease is similar to “viral pneumonia of unknown origin.” H. Bordey (With reports from Agence France-Presse)

China is investigating an outbreak of atypical pneumonia that is suspected of being linked to SARS, the flu-like virus that killed hundreds of people a decade ago, Agence France-Presse reported last Tuesday citing news from China’s state media.

Chinese news site The Paper also reported 27 cases of viral pneumonia in Wuhan in December, citing unnamed health officials from the city.

“Of the 27 cases, seven were critical, the rest were under control, and two patients are expected to be discharged from hospital in near future,” The Paper said.

The World Health Organization (WHO) criticized China for under-reporting the number of SARS cases following the outbreak in 2003.

SARS killed 349 people in mainland China and another 299 in Hong Kong in 2003.

The virus, which infected more than 8,000 people around the world, is expected to have originated in the southern Chinese province of Guangdong, according to WHO.