The text of the appeal notes that the hospital does not have conditions and special departments to protect medical personnel from the threat of coronavirus infection

Members of Hostomel local council signed an appeal to the regional council and the Kyiv mayor on preventing the hospitalization of people evacuated from Wuhan in the Kyiv hospital No. 2 amid the spread of a new deadly coronavirus. The press service of the Hostomel local council reported.

"On February 18, members of the Hostomel local council signed an appeal to the leadership of state institutions and the mayor of Kyiv to prevent the hospitalization of those evacuated from Wuhan for quarantine amid the massive spread of coronavirus in China," reads the message.

Thus, the appeal notes that this hospital doesn't possess there are no conditions and special departments that would protect medical personnel from the coronavirus infection hazard.

"Many medical workers of the medical facility live in Hostomel, and they are concerned that they may become carriers of the disease among the residents of the village," the statement says.

As we reported earlier Ukraine is evacuating Ukrainian citizens from China, the airplane to land in Kyiv on February 20. Ukraine will also evacuate citizens of the Russian Federation, Germany, Belarus and other countries from the Chinese city of Wuhan.

In the Ternopil region, western Ukraine, people set up the roadblocks and protest against hospitalizing people evacuated from Chinese Wuhan at local Medobory sanatorium.

It is known that the roadblocks were built at the entrance to Konopkivka village, Terebovlia district, where Medobory sanatorium is situated. 15 people are on duty at the roadblocks; the police officers stay with them.

In the morning on February 18, the protest was held in Mykulyntsi, not far from Konopkivka. About 300 people gathered there.

All of them stood against the accommodation of Ukrainians evacuated from China to Medobory sanatorium as people are afraid of the possible infection with Chinese coronavirus and believe that the establishment is not suitable for such purposes.

The local mass media began spreading information that the evacuated people will be transferred to this region for quarantine. Ternopil regional state administration could not provide any particular information and did not confirm or refute the information.

The locals stated that the representatives of the control authorities came to the sanatorium to check whether it is ready to host over 90 people.