© Provided by WAPT Jackson People filling sandbags during Flood Watch 2020

Scattered showers Saturday brought issues for local residents in the Jackson metro. With a fast-moving cold front moving through central Mississippi, rain totals peaked around a quarter of an inch or less.

The Pearl River continues to get closer to the 35-foot crest. By noon Saturday, the river reached 34 feet. Streets in neighborhoods near I-20 and US-80 showed signs of flooding Saturday morning as the river surpassed 34 feet. While the river is not expected to overflow within the next few days, flooding is still a concern as the river continues to rise.

Jackson residents were at the city's impound lot on Michael Avalon Street gathering sandbags for their homes and businesses.

In northeast Jackson, residents are closely watching the water creep up their streets. On Riverwood and Harrow Drives, the water is coming up the street putting residents on edge. " We have a little flooding in the back and on the side , but it hasn't gotten into the house. So, I think we are doing pretty good. If it gets to 36 feet, then we will pack and go to family," said Keundra Quave, a resident.

Water levels are expected to crest around 35 feet for the next several days. With the chance of rain increasing for Thursday, this may cause flooding concerns once again for low-lying areas as well as locations with poor drainage. The Pearl River will also have to be constantly monitored for possible rising due to the upcoming rain.

Ricky Moore, the emergency management director of Hinds County, mentioned last week if the river were to reach or surpass 36.2 feet, the river could overflow and homes downtown would be inundated.

January 1979 remains the wettest month on record at more than 14 inches of rain. In addition, the record flood level for the Pearl River was during the Easter Flood of 1979 when the water level reached 43 feet.

READ THE FULL STORY:Pearl River to rise to 35 feet, causing flooding to parts of Jackson

CHECK OUT WAPT:Get the latest Jackson, MS, news. With top local, national, and sports stories, plus all the Jackson weather info you need, WAPT is the place to be.