Sign up to FREE email alerts from Liverpool Echo - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

These are the heroic and selfless Merseyside NHS staff stepping out to tackle the coronavirus quarantine head on.

Under pressure medical staff at Arrowe Park Hospital have been asked to volunteer to work with around 80 British nationals.

The families were evacuated from the Chinese city of Wuhan - the epicentre of the pandemic which has killed around 212.

Some staff at the Birkenhead hospital were cleared out of an accommodation block earmarked as a quarantine zone for the evacuees with 12 hours notice.

Moving vans are at the property yesterday evening and washing machines and fridges were being removed.

Follow our coronavirus live blog with all of the latest updates

A source told the ECHO: "It's a building designed for permanent staff or students, cleaners, porters, doctors or nurses.

"People use it as permanent accommodation and as temporary. But people do live there for long periods of time."

(Image: PA)

A nurse has already raised concerns that most staff found out about the quarantine plan on the news.

They said: "Most staff heard it on the news first which is terrible, panic is the word I would use. At least warn your staff before the news, also the Wirral population are worried also.

"No-one's happy about it and they says it's airborne, so how are they getting from the airport to the accommodation?

"We haven't been fit tested for masks, don't know if A&E have.

(Image: Peter Byrne/ PA)

"Shouldn't the staff and people of the Wirral have a say about this? Putting our lives and our family's lives at risk."

Other images show staff wheeling TVs into the block.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

On Thursday night it was announced an evacuation flight from Wuhan, the epicentre of the new strain of the virus, is due to arrive at the RAF airbase Brize Norton in Oxfordshire at about 1pm today.

Its passengers will then be transferred to the Birkenhead hospital under police escort, where they will be quarantined in the staff accommodation block.

It is believed they are in the process of being offered alternative accommodation but it is not known where yet.

This morning the Department of Health and Social Care confirmed that two patients in the UK have tested positive for the new strain, although they were not among the Britons being transferred to Wirral.

On arrival, passengers will be taken by bus to the Wirral hospital for a quarantine period of 14 days, where they will be housed in an NHS staff accommodation block with access to the internet.

(Image: Andy Teebay)

However anyone with 'suspicious symptoms' will be taken to the Royal Liverpool Hospital which has a high-level infectious diseases unit, the Press Association confirmed.

Wirral University Teaching Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, which runs Arrowe Park, directed all enquiries to the Department of Health and Social Care, which has been contacted for comment.

What is the coronavirus?

Coronaviruses are a group of viruses that cause disease in animals. In Wuhan, China, a new strain of the virus made the jump from animals to humans.

This new virus, known as Novel coronavirus (2019-nCov), is thought to be more dangerous than other forms of the coronavirus.

Currently, 15-20% of all cases of the virus have been classed as "severe" and the current death rate from the virus stands at two percent.

Generally the coronavirus causes more severe symptoms in people with weakened immune systems, older people and those with long-term conditions like diabetes, cancer and chronic lung disease.

How many people have been infected?

Cornonavirus is known to have killed 170 people in China and infected more than 7,000.

So far it has spread to 16 other countries, including the United States.

There is no cure for the coronavirus, much in the same way that there is no cure for the common cold.

(Image: Getty Images)

Over the past week, the number of confirmed infections has tripled and cases have been diagnosed across the whole of China and in neighbouring countries.

The actual number of people to have contracted the virus may actually be far higher as those with mild symptoms may not have been detected.

Experts at Imperial College London have suggested that there may be as many as 100,000 cases of the virus, with a margin of anywhere between 30,00 and 200,000 cases.

Are there any cases of coronavirus in the UK?

According the government website, as of 30 January, 161 tests have been carried out in the UK on people suspected of having the coronavirus.

Of those tested, all 161 have been confirmed as negative and we are yet to have a confirmed case of the virus here in the UK.

There are currently no confirmed cases in the UK or among UK citizens abroad and the government describes the risk to the public as "low".

The government says it is monitoring the current situation closely and is working with the World Health Organization (WHO) and the international community.

(Image: Getty Images)

The Department of Health and Social Care has been publishing regularly updated data online every day at 2pm on the number of people tested for the virus.

Between 10 and 24 January, 1,466 passengers and 95 staff arrived in the UK on direct flights from Wuhan.

Of those people, 162 have already left the UK and 760 are outside the disease's incubation period.



Public Health England are working to contact the remaining passengers.

The government's response to the outbreak is guided by the advice of the Chief Medical Officer.

According to the government website, if and when the first case of the virus in the UK is confirmed, it will be announced as soon as possible by the Chief Medical Officer.

What are symptoms?

Typical symptoms of the coronavirus include fever and cough that can progress to severe pneumonia causing shortness of breath and breathing difficulties.

According to the government's advice the virus causes more severe symptoms in people with weakened immune systems , older people, and those with long-term conditions like diabetes, cancer and chronic lung disease.

In the confirmed cases of the virus, symptoms reported included fever, coughing, shortness of breath, muscle ache, confusion, headache and a sore throat.

Of the patients initially treated in China, a detailed analysis revealed that all 99 of the first patients had developed pneumonia - where there lungs became inflamed and the sacs where oxygen moves from the air to the blood were filling with water.