The World Health Organisation (WHO) has categorised the coronavirus outbreak as an epidemic (Photo: Getty Images)

Fears are growing that the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus could soon be declared a pandemic, as the virus continues to spread across more countries.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) has currently categorised the outbreak as an epidemic with multiple locations, but it is now at the 'tipping point' of becoming a pandemic as new cases are reported around the world.

So what’s the difference between an epidemic and a pandemic?

Sign up to our daily newsletter The i newsletter cut through the noise Thanks for signing up! Sorry, there seem to be some issues. Please try again later. Submitting...

What is a pandemic?

The WHO defines a pandemic as the worldwide spread of a new disease, across several countries or continents, affecting a large number of people.

A viral outbreak could be categorised as a pandemic if it is markedly different from recently circulating strains, and if humans have little or no immunity to it, according to the UK’s Health and Safety Executive.

As of Tuesday 3 March, there have been a total of 90,933 confirmed cases of coronavirus across the globe, with the number of deaths in China now at 3,119.

Most cases have been recorded in Hubei province, where capital city, Wuhan, is the epicentre of the outbreak. There have also been more than 1,200 instances of the virus confirmed in more than 40 countries outside of China, including Thailand, Japan, Australia, US, Germany and the UK.

What is an epidemic?

In contrast, an epidemic refers to a more localised or regional outbreak of a disease, rather than one that has spread across the globe.

It is an increase - often sudden - in the number of cases of a disease that is above what is normally expected in that population in that area, according to the Centers for Disease and Control Prevention (CDC).

The CDC explains that an epidemic may result from:

A recent increase in amount or virulence of the agent

The recent introduction of the agent into a setting where it has not been before

An enhanced mode of transmission so that more susceptible persons are exposed

A change in the susceptibility of the host response to the agent

Factors that increase host exposure or involve introduction through new portals of entry

Health officials have so far considered the coronavirus to be an epidemic outbreak.

There are currently more than 80,000 confirmed cases of coronavirus, mostly within mainland China (Photo: Getty Images)

Brits urged to leave

The UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) amended its travel advice on Tuesday 4 February, advising against all travel to Hubei Province due to the ongoing coronavirus outbreak.

Brits have been urged against all but essential travel to the rest of mainland China, not including Hong Kong and Macao.