What makes one squirm in disgust especially during the ongoing Taal Volcano’s rare moments of rage and rampage is when assholes come around, as ashfall darkens the blue sky and soaks the evenings.

Right in the middle of the catastrophe, a Cavite representative, Elpidio Bargaza Jr., is pushing for a congressional inquiry on the supposed “ineptness” the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (Phivolcs) for its failure to monitor and warn the public of an impending volcanic eruption.

If this is not idiotic, then I really do not know what dictionary would render a better synonym!

Such inquiry “in aid of legislation” would definitely pull out the point men, including director Renato Solidum, field officers and experts from their jobs just to attend the tireless and boring hearings, as Taal continues to spew fatal phreatic materials.

And for what? To file cases of gross negligence against these “irresponsible” guys for not shouting out loud at Taal Volcano to “Stop!”

Sen. Win Gatchalian hit the nail on the head when he put the blame on the LGU (local government unit) personnel themselves, including congressmen of the said districts with danger zones, like the Taal Volcano vicinity of Batangas and Cavite.

He said curtly, “But we can see that some local officials allowed people to inhabit the area despite the fact that authorities have been saying that Taal is an active volcano. So, the question is, why did they allow people to live there when it is considered a danger zone?”

Besides, it should be these representatives who must have exerted every effort to warn their constituents of such, based on the findings of Phivolcs, which they should have solicited in the first place.

Probably, the good congressman from Cavite sees the sword falling on his neck eventually, hence, his attempt to preempt that. The sword will fall.

Furthermore, what kind of beastly breed would pull out the N95 masks from shelves and raise the tag prices of these protective mechanisms, seeing a heyday of windfall profits?

Well, we will love to see these avaricious kinds in jail, or better at the mouth of the volcano itself without the face masks!

Sometimes, it is good to have nasty bashers around in social media. At the height of the disaster, they poured burning ashes on this asshole who joked about the eruptions, saying “Now is the time to buy fish from Taal Lake, you get them already cooked, ready to chow, hahaha!”

From what brood can such insensitive people come from!

Then there are thieves, some caught by the police red-handed, looting the houses left by evacuees escaping the cloud of ashes; however, most of the looters were from other places.

We can understand the angst of those who ran away and wanting to retrieve whatever they could still salvage from their homes, before ruthless looters arrive ahead of them.

Furthermore, on social media, some religious groups, probably, fanatical, started putting the blame of “God’s wrath” on the Catholics because of the latter’s alleged “idolatrous practices” in the recent Quiapo mammoth procession.

Some are “godlier” than God himself; some mouths should be zipped for lack of nothing beneficial to say.

And just two days ago, the Chinese Embassy donated thousands of pieces of face masks to Batangas province, and the top honcho of the province did not let the donation go without fanfare, as he feted in a ceremony the generosity of the Chinese.

Why can’t they just give and accept the donation without a whimper?

Also, can the likes of VP Leni Robredo and Ms. Mocha Uson bring their lashes on each other over nothing somewhere else please, and not at this time of tragedy and grief!

Well, may these assholes be buried in the ashfall. Of course, I am not praying for it, but it’s a good idea.

My apologies, though!