Following six hours of deliberations on Friday, February 14, a jury found a Canton man guilty in the beating death of a Frederic resident which occurred in the summer of 2018.

The jury of six women and six men found Matthew Franklin Smith, 37, guilty of open murder, torture, and unlawful imprisonment for the death of Dennis Everson, 64, from Frederic, who was reported missing by family members on Friday, July 6, 2018. The family told Crawford County Sheriff’s Deputies that Everson had not been heard from since Monday, July 2.

Smith, Everson, and Dylan Ziegler, 19, of Romulus, were scrapping metal on the days prior to the murder.

After a day of working and eating dinner, Ziegler said that Everson came out of his house and punched him in the face. Ziegler and Smith were drinking liquor and smoking marijuana in the truck.

On the witness stand last week, Ziegler said he felt no need to reciprocate with a punch.

“It wouldn’t make it right to hit him back,” Ziegler said.

Everson later came out of the house and started yelling derogatory remarks at Smith and spilled beer in his lap, which set Smith off. Smith pulled Everson to the ground by his hair and started beating and kicking him while he was trying to retreat into the house. Smith, with the assistance of Ziegler, loaded Everson into the back of the truck.

Ziegler said Smith told him that they were going to burn Everson or drown him in a lake. Everson was able to escape the bed of the truck, but was grabbed and beaten by Smith a second time.

Ziegler testified that Smith remained angry throughout the entire altercation.

“He lost his head,” Ziegler said regarding Smith.

Ziegler admitted to hitting Everson in the head, knocking him from a sitting position to where he lying in the bed of the truck. Ziegler maintained that Everson was still conscious.

Everson was taken to a nearby property, where scrap metal was stored and a camping trailer was parked. Smith attempted to start the trailer on fire, but Everson was able to put the fire out. Smith then propped the door of the trailer shut with a two by four board.

Smith drove his truck on a trail leading away from the camper. Ziegler said that Smith retrieved something from the back of truck. Smith returned 15 minutes later, and told Ziegler not to talk about what occurred.

The men slept in the truck on a two-track trail located north of Everson’s property that night. They then returned downstate.

During the four-day trial last week, Gaylord attorney Kevin L. Hesselink, who is representing Smith, said the case was largely based on circumstantial evidence and testimony from Ziegler and Anthony Bentley, a jail house informant.

But a parade of witnesses put on the stand by Crawford County Prosecutor Sierra R. Koch revealed an ongoing dispute between Smith and Everson, greed, and a dispute over the relaxation of laws for medical marijuana use.

Bentley was given a four year cap in prison in a plea bargain agreement for a charge of delivery of methamphetamine.

A deal is also pending for Ziegler for his truthful testimony in the trial last week. On April 15, 2019, Ziegler in Crawford County Circuit Court, pled guilty to torture, a felony that carries up to life or any number of years in prison, and manslaughter, a 15-year maximum sentence in prison. Charges were dropped against Ziegler for conspiracy to commit homicide-open murder and conspiracy to commit torture. He faces up to 10 and half years in prison with credit for time served as opposed to a life sentence.

Bentley testified that Smith told him the incident involving Everson happened after he sent a Facebook selfie picture of himself and Ziegler to Jacquelyn Roach of Gaylord. Smith was encouraging Roach to come down and spend time with him.

Bentley said that Smith told him that Ziegler jumped in when the final assault was taking place and cut Everson’s head off.

Bentley also testified that Smith told him that he had no idea how hard it took to kill somebody while hitting them in the head with a hammer and was crying and vomiting when the bludgeoning was taking place.

In a statement Smith gave to Detective Sgt. Ryan Swope of the Crawford County Sheriff’s Office, he said three people knew what happened, but only two could talk about it because the other one was dead. Smith was not forthcoming to Swope to provide further information which would have exonerated himself.

Hesselink said the statement did not point total guilt at Smith, and it was equally plausible that Ziegler could have killed Everson.

“Knowledge is not participation,” Hesselink argued.

Dr. John Bechinski, the medical examiner for Crawford County, said the injuries sustained by Everson during the fight at his home were consistent with being in a high-speed motor vehicle crash.

An autopsy concluded that Everson died from blunt force trauma to the head. His head was also examined by technicians from Michigan State University’s Department of Anthropology, who determined there were two areas of Eversion’s skull where injuries occurred.

Bechinski said he could not pinpoint a time when the death occurred since he received Everson’s body for an examination on July 9.

“I would say the death was within seconds,” Bechinski testified.

David Hayhust, a DNA expert from the Michigan State Police Crime lab in Grand Rapids, said that there was DNA evidence on a red shirt Everson wore that was recovered from the crime scene. He said that it was 20 times likely that DNA evidence taken from the same shirt was a match to Smith based on a computer generated model.

Hesselink argued that the jury should not consider the testimony regarding DNA since an exact conclusion could not be made.

“You can’t use evidence that experts won’t,” Hesselink said.

Swope also submitted an orange tie down strap recovered from the crime scene, which had DNA evidence matched to Everson and Smith.

Hesselink argued that the DNA could have come from the two men on the days they were scrapping metal before the murder occurred.

Ziegler said that Smith poured axle grease in the back of the truck, and then washed it at a car wash. He added that Smith also had the tires on the truck changed so they could not be matched with tire tracks taken from the crime scene.

Despite covering up evidence, Ziegler’s palm prints were recovered from the tailgate of the truck.

Jennifer Patchin, a forensic crime scene analyst from the Michigan State Police Crime Lab in Grayling, said the chemical luminal was used to try to recover blood evidence from the interior and exterior of the truck. The chemical glows when there is a reaction to iron contained in blood.

Patchin said there was the possible presence of blood where the tailgate connected to the bed of the truck, but conceded that could have been the due to scrap metal being hauled under cross examination from Hesselink.

“It very well could have shown a reaction because of the presence of metals,” she said.

Swope testified that there were 23 missed calls on Everson’s cell phone after July 2.

Everson’s son, Edward, was the first to go to his home after he had not heard from him. He said he picked up part of his eye glasses, a hearing aide, and his cell phone from the yard. He also said he cleaned up dog feces and torn up furniture since a brindle pit bull dog in Everson’s home had not been let out.

Edward called the Crawford County Sheriff’s Office to report him missing on July 6. Swope said that the information was inputted into the Law Enforcement Information Network.

On July 7, Edward, his girlfriend, and Sharon Armstrong went to the site where scrap metal processing occurred. He said he freaked out and lost it when he discovered his father lying dead outside the camper. He said he punched the camper, causing a reflector to fall off.

Edward said his dad and Smith had been in previous arguments and physical fights over medical marijuana grow operation Smith had on Everson’s property by his home. He added that arguments were over money and that his dad was uneasy about the marijuana being grown there.

“I really did not want to get involved too much,” Edward said.

Everson’s other son, Ron, said he introduced Smith to his dad while they attended high school in Petoskey. He said Smith stayed at his dad’s house, they drank together, went fishing, and had fish fries.

“It was like family,” he said.

Ron reiterated that his dad was not comfortable with marijuana being grown on the property.

“He was uneasy about the grow operation and was nervous about it,” Ron said on with witness stand.

Armstrong, a childhood friend of Everson’s who said she got reacquainted with him in recent years while fishing, said Everson was upset about a high amount of electricity being used while the marijuana was being harvested and processed.

“I wanted to help get it out of there as soon as possible before it became a problem,” she said.

Derek Peterson, a Romulus resident who knew Smith and Ziegler, said he was troubled that Smith told him about a fight that occurred up north, but was told by Smith that the man was still alive. He was also concerned that Smith parked his truck in wooded area on his landlord’s property after they returned downstate.

“I knew something was wrong,” Peterson said.

Hesselink called just three defense witnesses before resting his case on Friday. Smith opted not to take the stand.

Richard Paine, who is serving a criminal sexual conduct sentence in a Jackson prison, refuted claims that Bentley did not look at police reports for Smith’s case and did not talk with Smith about what occurred while they were in the same cell block in the jail.

“He was being rather forceful about it,” Paine testified regarding Bentley’s actions.

Dennis Everson’s cousin, Barry Mertes, said he thought he could have seen Everson on July 3 walking on the side of the road while Mertes was going to cash his Social Security check.

Hesselink told the court that Mertes could be an adverse witness because he did not want to be in court. Mertes said testifying caused him to stress.

“I was unsure about anything – then and now,” Mertes said.

Finally, Mike Nagy, said he was drinking buddies with Everson and both were Vietnam veterans. He testified he thought he was with Everson on July 4 because the Dial-A-Ride busses were not running since it was a holiday.

In his closing argument, Hesselink said the testimony given by Bentley and Ziegler should be given less weight since they both were offered plea deals.

“There is no nice way to say it,” Hesselink said. “If you’re talking to liars you’re are going to get lies.”

Koch countered that there was sufficient evidence to put Smith at scene of the crime and he was the one that killed Everson.

“This wasn’t a fist fight. This wasn’t a bar fight,” Koch said in her final words to the jury. “This was a severe, brutal beatdown that ended in murder.”

Koch said she was impressed with the amount of attention and effort the jury put into the case before the verdict was rendered.

“I think the jury got it right. I think this was a very hard case,” she said. “They listened, they asked a lot of questions, and I’m very happy for the Everson family.”

Everson’s brother, Ron Everson, said he was equally pleased with the amount of effort and attention put into solving the homicide.

“I want to thank the whole Crawford County judicial system and for the fairest trial, and I thank them so much for all the analysis they used to get the information,” he said. “I thank them so much for justice being served.”

Smith faces life in prison when he is sentenced by Chief 46th Trial Court Judge George J. Mertz.