Beijing: Foreign airlines have announced the suspension of flights coming from China in view of the rapid spread of coronavirus infection. The above announcements by foreign airlines have come to light after preparations by the mainland countries to airlift their civilians stranded in Wuhan. According to the information, Wuhan is isolated from the whole world and 10 million people are living here under the threat of coronavirus. At the same time, it has also been learned that the health emergency continues in Wuhan due to the threat of this virus.

The United States, Britain and Germany have recently advised to refrain from traveling to China by issuing advisories to their citizens, asking China not to travel abroad for its citizens. At the same time, despite all these exercises, this deadly virus has registered its presence in 15 countries of the world. These countries have continued to treat patients infected with this virus by isolating them. In China, 132 people have died due to infection with this virus while around 6000 people are infected. It is being noted that globally, British Airways is the first major airline in the world to suspend its flights to China. British Airways said on Wednesday that it had suspended all flights to and from China in view of the threat of the coronavirus. The statement said that this step has been taken following the advice of the UK Foreign Ministry. It is known that British Airways aircraft fly regularly from London's Heathrow Airport to Shanghai and Beijing.

Three Myanmar airlines have suspended their flights to China since Saturday. Papua New Guinea has also closed its airports and ports as a precaution for all foreign travellers coming from Asia. In a message sent to airlines and ferry operators, the government has said that all those coming from Asian airports and ports will not be allowed to enter the country from Wednesday. Not only this, Cathay Pacific has also stopped operations of flights to China. At the same time, IndiGo and Air India of India have also suspended some of their flights.

Also Read:

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu faces difficulty, declared accused in corruption case

Iran missile attack revealed the terrible injury in American soldiers

Source of spreading corona virus revealed, strange animals created chaos

These 30 countries including India join the list of Corona virus