China said Tuesday it is "highly concerned" about the situation in the Middle East after the US killing of a top Iranian commander and criticised the US for not issuing a visa to the Iranian foreign minister to attend United Nations meetings.

"China urges the US to effectively fulfill its obligations as the host country and facilitate the participation of relevant countries' delegates in the UN meetings," said China's foreign ministry spokesperson Geng Shuang.

Iran's foreign minister says the US has declined to issue him a visa to attend the UN in New York amid the tensions sparked by the killing of General Qassem Soleimani.

Mohammad Javad Zarif made the comment Tuesday as the country prepared to bury Soleimani.

Also on Tuesday Iran's parliament passed an urgent bill declaring the US military's command at the Pentagon and those acting on its behalf in Soleimani's killing as "terrorists," subject to Iranian sanctions.

The measure appears to be an attempt to mirror a decision by US President Donald Trump in April to declare the Iranian Revolutionary Guard a "terrorist organisation."

The US Defense Department used the Guard's designation as a terror organisation in the US to support the strike that killed Soleimani.

The decision by Iran's parliament, done by a special procedure to speed the bill to law, comes as officials across the country threaten to retaliate for Soleimani's killing.

The vote also saw lawmakers approve funding for the Quds Force with an additional 200 million euros, or about 224 million US dollars.

"China is highly concerned about the current situation in the Middle East," said Geng at Tuesday's news conference, adding that the "worsening of tensions in the Gulf region serves no party's interests."

He urged the US not to "abuse force" and called for restraint.

The United States has sharply criticised Russia and China for blocking the United Nations Security Council from issuing a statement protesting last month's attack on the US Embassy in Iraq.

Geng said China will work with other members of the Security Council for the peace and stability of the Middle East "in an objective and fair spirit" and will communicate closely with Russia, China's "comprehensive strategic partner".

At the new conference, Geng also said China and Indonesia are talking through diplomatic channels about maritime territorial disputes.

Indonesia had protested over China's violation last month of its exclusive economic zone (EEZ) near the Natuna Islands, which are located adjacent to the southernmost tip of the highly disputed South China Sea.

Geng said relations between the two countries are generally cooperative, and differences are just "a limited minor part."

China and Indonesia will mark the 70th anniversary of their diplomatic ties this year.