Coronavirus Live Updates: Toll Rises as Emergency Declaration Is Considered

Maria van Kerkhove, Head of the Outbreak Investigation Task Force for World Health Organization (WHO), speaks to the media about the Situation regarding the new Coronavirus, during a press conference at the European headquarters of the United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, Wednesday, Jan. 29, 2020. Efforts to contain a new and deadly virus have intensified Wednesday, as quarantine facilities are set up, many airlines have suspended or significantly cut back flights from China and efforts continue to find a medical remedy. (Martial Trezzini/Keystone via AP) less Maria van Kerkhove, Head of the Outbreak Investigation Task Force for World Health Organization (WHO), speaks to the media about the Situation regarding the new Coronavirus, during a press conference at the ... more Photo: Martial Trezzini, AP Photo: Martial Trezzini, AP Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close Coronavirus Live Updates: Toll Rises as Emergency Declaration Is Considered 1 / 1 Back to Gallery

The World Health Organization is meeting again Thursday to decide whether to declare the coronavirus epidemic an international public health emergency, as China said that another 38 people had died from the virus.

The global health agency met twice last week but was split about whether to declare an emergency, saying it did not have enough information to decide. Such rulings can rally a global response but also put countries at the center of any outbreak under even greater scrutiny.

China said Thursday that the total number of deaths from the coronavirus had risen to 170, with cases now confirmed in every province and region in the country. More than 7,700 people have been sickened in mainland China, while 68 cases have been reported around the world.

The WHO has so far praised China’s response. Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the organization’s director-general, met with Xi Jinping, the Chinese leader, in Beijing on Tuesday.

Xi had led “a monumental national response,” Tedros wrote on Twitter, adding he was “struck by the determination of Chinese leadership.”

One hundred seventy people have died. More than 7,711 cases have been confirmed.

Thirty-eight more deaths in China from the coronavirus were announced Thursday, bringing the toll to 170. Most of those recent deaths, 37, occurred in Hubei province, the center of the outbreak. One person died in the southwestern province of Sichuan.

Another 1,737 new cases were recorded in the past 24 hours for a total of 7,711 worldwide, according to Chinese officials and the World Health Organization. The real number is likely to be higher.

Tibet reported its first confirmed case. This means that all of China’s provinces and territories have now been touched by the outbreak.

Thailand has reported 14 cases of infection; Japan has 11; Hong Kong and Singapore have 10; Taiwan has eight; Australia, Malaysia and Macao each have seven; France and the United States have five; South Korea, Germany and the United Arab Emirates each have 4; Canada has three; Vietnam has two; and India, the Philippines, Nepal, Cambodia, Sri Lanka and Finland each have one.

Cases recorded in Taiwan, Germany, Vietnam and Japan involved patients who had not been to China. There have been no reported deaths outside China.

Wuhan residents lashed out over handling of the outbreak.

Anger and frustration have escalated in Wuhan, the center of the outbreak, as the city’s overwhelmed hospitals pleaded for urgent help to replenish diminishing supplies.

A relative of a coronavirus patient assaulted a doctor at a hospital in Wuhan, pulling and damaging the doctor’s mask and protective clothing, the state broadcaster CCTV reported Thursday, citing local police. The Beijing Youth Daily, a state-owned newspaper, reported that two doctors had been attacked at the hospital, including one who was threatened and had his protective gown torn off.

In the face of rising public anger, the central government has sought to present itself as intervening to hold accountable local officials in areas that have been hit hard by the epidemic.

CCTV aired footage Thursday showing a central government inspection team grilling officials in Huanggang, a city about 50 miles from Wuhan, about the number of beds they had set aside for coronavirus patients. As the two local health officials fumbled their responses to seemingly basic questions, the visiting inspectors’ questions took on a more impatient tone.

Unusual in its blunt portrayal of inadequate government response, the report was quickly shared on Chinese social media sites with the hashtag “one question, three don’t knows.”

Officials say medical supplies are running dangerously low in central China, despite gear being delivered in bulk from around the world. The Huazhong University of Science and Technology in Wuhan wrote on Weibo, a social media platform, that the city had received 240,000 masks, 25,000 protective gowns and 4,000 pairs of medical goggles from its alumni group in Germany. The Chinese community in Singapore sent 75,000 medical masks.

Photographs posted online showed hospital workers, many still in protective gear, slumped over their desks and on the floors in exhaustion.

In eerily quiet Wuhan, few people are venturing out except for food.

From Chris Buckley, our chief China correspondent, on the ground in Wuhan:

Since the central Chinese city of Wuhan went under official lockdown last week, most shops have shut, few cars venture onto the roads, and fear has kept most people in their homes.

When Wuhan residents do step outside, it’s mostly to go to the supermarkets, food stores and pharmacies that have stayed open as part of a government effort to sustain the city. Senior officials have promised that residents need not worry about supplies of vegetables, fruit or other staples, even as large swaths of the province, Hubei, are also locked down to curtail the outbreak.

Yet Wuhan residents complained about price hikes and expressed fear that a prolonged shutdown might choke off food supplies. Poorer people, both in urban Wuhan and in the countryside, would suffer more acutely from tightening supplies.

“If we can’t bring in produce, it will become more expensive, or we might even have to close up,” said Zuo Qichao, who was selling piles of cucumbers, turnips and tomatoes. As he spoke, a woman accused him of unfairly raising the turnips’ price.

“Every county, every village around here is now putting up barriers, worried about that disease,” Zuo said. “Even if the government says it wants food guaranteed, it won’t be easy — all those road checks.”

Several migrant workers who were trapped in Wuhan by the lockdown said they were getting by on cheap cartons of instant noodles and canned foods — partly because they had nowhere to cook proper meals, and partly because they were trying to save money, in case the nationwide emergency should lead to an economic downturn.

“I’ve been eating so many containers of instant noodles that my mouth and nose are raw,” said Qiu Dongjun, a 38-year old construction worker from rural Hubei Province, who worried that the lockdown would threaten jobs in the city.

“What will we do if we don’t have jobs?” he said. “I have to save money.”

The U.S. commerce secretary sees a silver lining in China’s woes.

Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said Thursday that China’s loss might be America’s gain because the coronavirus outbreak could prompt employers to move jobs to the United States.

“I don’t want to talk about a victory lap over a very unfortunate, very malignant disease,” Ross said in an interview on Fox Business. “I think it will help to accelerate the return of jobs to North America. Some to the U.S., probably some to Mexico as well.”

Ross cited previous disease outbreaks in China, suggesting that a prevalence of diseases there would become a factor in businesses leaving the country and relocating to North America.

“You had SARS, you have the African swine virus there, now you have this,” Ross said.

His remarks may be seen as insensitive to a country in crisis, and he has faced such criticism in the past. During the government shutdown in early 2019, Ross suggested that furloughed workers should take out loans while they went without pay for more than a month.

China now has more cases of the virus than it had of SARS — but comparing the two is tricky.

Cases of the mysterious new coronavirus in mainland China now outnumber the infections that China saw during the entire SARS outbreak of 2002 and 2003.

SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, ultimately killed 774 people in 17 countries. Chinese authorities were criticized for their response to that epidemic, which began inside its borders.

By Thursday, the number of confirmed cases of the new coronavirus had risen to 7,711 worldwide, according to Chinese officials and the WHO. All but 68 of those infections have been in mainland China.

Experts cautioned that comparing the two diseases was difficult. Tracking SARS infections was complicated by a dearth of testing equipment and a lack of transparency among local politicians and the central government. While officials say China has made progress on those fronts, similar concerns threaten to undermine an accurate count of infections from the new coronavirus, known to scientists as 2019-nCoV.

Preliminary figures suggest the new coronavirus is less likely to result in death than SARS, which killed 1 in 10 infected patients, but it is still too early to paint a full picture of its mortality rate.

By comparison, MERS, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, another coronavirus, killed 1 in 3 patients. The mortality rate of seasonal flu is about 1 in 1,000.

Russia suggests it will close its border with China and limit visas.

Russia prepared for a partial closure of its 2,600-mile border with China as fears about the coronavirus outbreak mounted in Moscow.

Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin ordered 16 of the approximately 25 crossing points that Russia operates on the Chinese border to be closed as of midnight Wednesday local time. He said the closures would be part of a new raft of measures to stop the infection from spreading to the country from Russia’s southeastern neighbor.

Russian officials say that no cases of coronavirus infection have been confirmed in Russia.

“We have to do everything to protect our people,” Mishustin said in televised remarks at a Cabinet meeting. “We will inform everyone about the relevant actions being taken to close the border in the Far Eastern region and other measures being taken by the government.”

Australia plans to quarantine citizens on a remote island.

Australia said it would quarantine its citizens evacuated from Wuhan, China, the epicenter of the outbreak, for two weeks on an island 2,000 miles off the coast of mainland Australia, amid global fears that the spread of the virus will accelerate.

Six people in Australia, all of whom recently spent time in China, have already been diagnosed with the new coronavirus. But there are also about 600 Australian citizens trapped in Hubei province, where Wuhan and other cities have effectively been under lockdown for a week.

The government said it would transport those “isolated and vulnerable” people to Christmas Island, the site of a detention camp used for housing immigrants in the country illegally and asylum-seekers.

Timing for the evacuation remains uncertain as the government awaits approval from China. Officials said Qantas Airways would facilitate the evacuation.

Christmas Island, which is near the Indonesian island of Java, has played an important but checkered role in Australia’s contentious use of faraway sites to house refugees and other migrants. Some Australians questioned the implications of using the island as a quarantine site.

Last year, the government reopened a detention center on the island, in a bid to counter legislation that would let sick detainees seek treatment on the mainland.

Moving people to Christmas Island is not an “appropriate solution,” Dr. Tony Bartone, president of the Australian Medical Association, said in a television news interview, adding that the government had other facilities it could use, such as military sites.

People trapped in Wuhan said they were torn between staying in China or spending two weeks at a remote detention facility.

“I have mixed feelings about it,” Daniel Ouyang, an Australian who visited Wuhan for the Lunar New Year holiday, told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.

The government, he said, had not been forthcoming about what conditions they should expect on the island. “What’s going to happen to our freedom?” he asked.

“Christmas Island for 14 days is a long time,” Bon Lee, a Sydney man in Hubei province, told The Sydney Morning Herald. “It’s a drastic measure.”

Anger in Taiwan as China refuses its evacuation request.

In Taiwan, anger has been growing over China’s refusal this week to let Taiwan evacuate about 300 of its people from Wuhan, even as it has given the United States, Japan and other countries permission to do so.

China’s ruling Communist Party considers Taiwan, a democratically governed island, to be part of China, and the two sides have no formal ties. Referring to the rebuffed evacuation request Tuesday, Ma Xiaoguang, a spokesman for China’s Taiwan Affairs Office, said in a statement that Taiwanese people in Hubei province, which includes Wuhan, were receiving “appropriate care.”

Kolas Yotaka, a spokeswoman for Taiwan’s government, said China was prioritizing politics over lives. Many of the Taiwanese seeking evacuation from Wuhan were tourists or on business trips, while others were residents of the city who suffered from chronic diseases, Kolas said.

“We call on the Chinese government to demonstrate basic humanity and agree to our request as soon as possible,” she said.

As part of its campaign to isolate Taiwan diplomatically, China has blocked it from participating in international bodies like the World Health Organization — a fact that has also angered Taiwanese people this week, as they try to prepare along with the rest of the world for the possibility of a worsening epidemic.

Doctor challenges Communist Party members to head to the front lines.

Comments from a doctor in Shanghai surged across Chinese social media after he described challenging Communist Party members to take the lead in fighting the coronavirus outbreak.

Dr. Zhang Wenhong, the head and party secretary of the infectious disease department at Huashan Hospital, said the first wave of doctors from Shanghai to head to the outbreak’s epicenter in Hubei province were volunteers but that he later ordered Communist Party members to follow suit.

“The first batch were all amazing doctors,” he said, adding that they went to the front line when they didn’t even know the risk of the virus.

But it was unfair to take advantage of their altruism, said Zhang, who is responsible for organizing the medical teams sent from Shanghai.

“I changed and gave all the front-line positions to the Communist Party members,” he said. “Didn’t the Communists say when they took the oath that they put the interests of the people first?”

His comments hinted at the ruling Communist Party’s efforts to control the response to the epidemic, even as some critics have said that its obsession with secrecy aided the initial spread of the disease.

On Tuesday, the party’s Central Committee called on members in the medical community to “play the vanguard roles and build a strong defense network” against the disease, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.

The response online to Zhang’s remarks was widely supportive, with many commenters praising his blunt language. Some even suggested that he replace leaders in Hubei, who have been heavily criticized over the outbreak.

People’s reasons for joining the party have grown less ideological in recent decades, and membership is increasingly seen as a way to make connections and boost career prospects. Some social media users suggested that they supported Zhang because he was forcing party members to live up to their pledges of public service.

“What we’re left to infer is many party members hid at the back and let the sincere people charge to the front,” wrote one commenter on Weibo. “The reality is many party members are out for status and personal benefit and not to serve the people.”

Investors dump stocks and buy gold on coronavirus fears.

Fears that a mysterious and fast-moving virus in China could affect the global economy drove investors in Asia to dump stocks Thursday.

Money fled riskier assets like stocks and oil and flowed instead into investments that are considered safe havens like gold as growing numbers of policymakers, economists and corporate executives have sounded alarms. Major benchmarks across the region fell by more than 1%. Europe and Wall Street also looked poised for a day of selling.

Early on, economists had speculated that China’s economy would not likely be as badly hit as it was during the 2002-03 SARS epidemic. Some have now begun to revise their outlooks as more details emerge about the number of cases and speed of transmission of the coronavirus.

A growing number of companies have also warned they will have to close or shift operations and could take a financial hit from widespread business disruptions in China.

In Tokyo and Hong Kong, stocks were down 1.5%, while in Seoul they fell 1.7%. Traders in Taipei, returning from the Lunar New Year holiday, pushed the market down by 5.8%. China’s markets remain closed for an extended holiday until Monday.

Brent crude oil, the international benchmark, hit its lowest price this year before paring some of its losses. It was trading about $59 a barrel.

Policymakers in Japan and the United States issued warnings about the potential effect of the virus on the economy. “There will clearly be implications,” said the Federal Reserve chair, Jerome Powell, on Wednesday. “We just have to see what the effect is globally.”

This article originally appeared in The New York Times.