There are fears the London underground transport network could become a hotbed for the spread of coronavirus in the UK as the number of cases in the country rises to nine.

On Wednesday a woman who contracted the virus in China and travelled to the UK tested positive for coronavirus, recently renamed COVID-19. She is being treated in isolation at a specialist hospital in London.

The news has sparked worries it will be difficult to contain the disease in the city of nearly nine million people which includes four major airports and an extensive underground network.

MORE: Number of virus cases explodes

MORE: Follow the latest on coronavirus here

Dr Michael Head, from University of Southampton told The Sun: “The extensive London public transport system provides potential opportunities for transmission, with many people mixing in relatively small spaces.”

Dr Robin Thompson, from Oxford University, said: “In general, if an initial case is in a densely populated area, then the risk of sustained person-to-person transmission following is higher.

“This is exacerbated by the fact that London is a transport hub, and the underground could provide a network to spread the virus quickly.

“As a result, given this case was in London, it might be expected that there is an increased risk posed by this case compared to the others we have seen.”

media_camera The confined space people travel in could help the virus spread, experts have warned. Pictured, people ride to work on "No Trousers Tube Ride" last month. Picture: Hollie Adams/Getty Images.

media_camera The packed tube carries millions of people each day, including those pictured taking part in the "No Trousers Tube Ride" in January. Picture: Hollie Adams/Getty Images.

Meanwhile an eight-month-old baby is in isolation after coming into contact with a British GP who contracted the disease after a ski holiday in France.

The little boy and his mother are being held at home, his father confirmed. He didn’t want to be named and the family also feared for their four-year-old daughter after their son displayed “all the symptoms” of the disease.

“We’re in hell, completely petrified,” he told the Telegraph. “My ex-partner keeps breaking down in tears.

“We’re staying in the house and giving the kids Calpol and paracetamol, but nothing’s working.

“My little boy has haemophilia and a lung condition, so he’s already poorly.”

Earlier this week UK businessman Steve Walsh was controversially named as a “superspreader” of the disease after contracting it at a work conference in Singapore.

media_camera Steve Walsh was named as a person infected with the disease who passed it onto others at a ski resort and sparked the closure of medical practices in southern England. Picture: Servomex / AFP.

On Thursday China’s Hubei province, where the virus is believed to have originated, reported 242 new deaths, double the previous day’s toll and the fastest rise since the pathogen was identified in December.

It also confirmed 14,840 new cases, though it was amplified significantly by a switch to using quicker computerised tomography (CT) scans – which reveal lung infections – to confirm virus cases.

Australia also extended a travel ban preventing Chinese students and visitors from coming to Australia for another week.

The Chinese embassy in Canberra reacted to the news, saying it had “deep regret and dissatisfaction” at the decision.

“The World Health Organisation has repeatedly stressed that it does not recommend putting travel and trade restrictions on China.

“Only Australia and a small number of countries have taken such extreme measures which are an over-reaction indeed.

“We urge the Australian side to … respect WHO’s professional recommendations, and lift the restrictions as early as possible.”

– With wires

Originally published as London virus case sparks tube fears