As China struggles to contain a rapidly spreading disease, cases have been identified in more than a dozen other countries, including the first confirmed patients in Canada and Sri Lanka. (Photo: AFP/MOH EL SASAKY)

Here are the places that have confirmed cases of the new coronavirus.

CHINA

As of Wednesday (Jan 29), nearly 6,000 people have been infected across China, the bulk of them in and around Wuhan.

Most of the 132 who have died were in that region, but officials have confirmed multiple deaths elsewhere, including the first in the capital Beijing.

Macau, a gambling hub hugely popular with mainland tourists, has confirmed seven cases as of Tuesday.

In Hong Kong, eight people have been infected. Of those, six arrived via a newly built high-speed train terminal that connects the city to the mainland.

ASIA-PACIFIC REGION

Australia

Five cases have been confirmed in Australia - all of whom arrived in the country from Wuhan. The patients are being treated in hospitals in Sydney and Melbourne.

Cambodia

Cambodia's health ministry reported the country's first case of the virus on Monday: A 60-year-old man who arrived from Wuhan and is now stable in an isolation room.

Japan

Japan health authorities confirmed the country's first locally transmitted case on Tuesday, a bus driver from Nara prefecture who had apparently driven tourists from Wuhan earlier this month.

The confirmed imported cases are two men and a woman who were treated after returning to Japan from Wuhan, as well as another man in his 40s who was visiting from Wuhan.

Malaysia

Malaysia has confirmed seven cases as of Wednesday.

These include a four-year-old child, a 52-year-old man, a 40-year-old man and four relatives of the first confirmed case in Singapore who travelled to Malaysia.

Nepal

Nepal said a 32-year-old man arriving from Wuhan had the disease. The patient, who was initially quarantined, recovered and was discharged.

Singapore

Singapore has so far confirmed seven cases of the coronavirus - all of them arrived in the city-state from Wuhan.

South Korea

South Korean media reported the country's fourth case on Monday, citing the national Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The three men and a woman all travelled from Wuhan.

Sri Lanka

Sri Lanka confirmed its first case of the virus on Monday - a 43-year-old Chinese woman who entered the country as a tourist last week from Hubei province.

She is being treated in hospital, a spokesman at the Infectious Diseases Hospital near Colombo told AFP.

Taiwan

Taiwan has uncovered seven cases so far, the latest two female Chinese nationals in their seventies, who arrived in the country as part of a tour group on Jan 22.

Thailand

Thailand announced 14 confirmed infections on Tuesday - the highest outside of China.

Health officials said that of the six new cases - all Chinese passengers from Wuhan - five of them were in the same family, ranging in ages six to 70.

Vietnam

Vietnam has so far confirmed two cases of the virus. An infected man from Wuhan travelled to Ho Chi Minh City earlier this month and passed the virus on to his son.

NORTH AMERICA

Canada

Canada confirmed its first case of the virus on Monday, a man who travelled to Wuhan, and has reported a second suspected case - his wife, who made the trip with him.

United States

The US has confirmed five cases of the virus in patients who had recently entered the country from Wuhan - two in California and one each in Arizona, Chicago and Washington state.

EUROPE

France

There are three known cases of the coronavirus in France, the first European country to be affected by the outbreak.

One person is sick in Bordeaux and another is ill in Paris. A third person, a close relative of one of the other two, has also been confirmed to have the virus.

All three had recently travelled to China and have been placed in isolation.

Germany

The country's first case was confirmed on Tuesday in the southern Bavarian region and was being treated in an isolation ward. The patient was said to be in a "medically good state".

Finland

Finland reported its first confirmed case on Wednesday, a Chinese traveller from Wuhan.

The traveller is in isolation at the central hospital in Lapland, the country's Institute for Health and Welfare said, adding that about 15 others may have been exposed.

MIDDLE EAST

UAE

The United Arab Emirates announced its first case of the virus on Wednesday, in a family from Wuhan.

State news agency WAM did not specify how many people were infected, but cited the Ministry of Health and Prevention as saying that they were stable and under monitoring.