Chinese health authorities have reported nearly 200 cases of a pneumonia-like illness that has spread to South Korea, Japan and Thailand. While different from the deadly SARS, the coronavirus is sparking memories of the outbreak in the early 2000s, as doctors try to understand the disease. Photo: Getty Images

A British tourist is feared to have contracted the mysterious coronavirus that’s sweeping Asia after he was hospitalised on a trip to Thailand, according to a report.

Ash Shorley, 32, was admitted in critical condition to a Phuket hospital, where he’s being treated for pneumonia-like lung infections, The Sun reported.

Doctors believe his symptoms are consistent with the new Chinese coronavirus, which has killed three patients and infected hundreds of others.

“They think he is the first Western victim of the Chinese flu,” his father, Chris, told the outlet. “We are waiting on tests.”

Ash, who had been travelling around Southeast Asia, became ill and his lungs collapsed on Koh Phi Phi island, the outlet reported.

He was transported on a special seaplane to the hospital because his lung damage prevented travel at higher altitudes, the report stated.

“He wasn’t able to go above a certain altitude because his lungs would pop,” his mum, Julie, told The Sun. “They managed to get him here, and if it wasn’t for the doctors’ expertise, he would be dead by now.”

While at the hospital, Ash had around two litres of liquid drained from his lungs, according to the report.

Chris said doctors informed him that his son was two days away from death when he arrived at the hospital.

“If he wasn’t so fit and healthy before, he wouldn’t be with us now,” his father told The Sun.

His family is urging travellers in Asia to take precautions.

“Anyone travelling to Asia, I would say to you, get a mask,” his father said. “Everyone here is wearing masks. There are people coughing everywhere.”

The SARS-like outbreak is believed to have originated in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, where 198 cases have been recorded.

The country has confirmed a total of 217 cases of the mysterious illness – with five patients in the capital city, Beijing, and 14 in Guangdong, state broadcaster CCTV reported.

Officials said the epidemic had spread to Thailand and Japan, with the cases involving recent travel from China.

This article originally appeared on the New York Post and was reproduced with permission