China ‘reserves the right to further action’ after journalists, editors, and media organisations are accused of spreading smears and racial discrimination

Beijing takes exception when Nepalese newspaper publishes article saying authoritarian systems don’t do well when confronting unexpected crises

China has stepped up its criticism of overseas media reports and commentaries on the coronavirus outbreak and said it reserved the right to take action against material it deemed “ignorant” or “prejudicial”.

On Tuesday, Beijing’s ambassador to Nepal accused the chief editor of The Kathmandu Post, Anup Kaphle, of publishing views biased against China – a complaint that resulted in a rebuke from 17 editors across the Nepalese media.

On Wednesday, China expelled three members of Wall Street Journal staff after a commentary headlined, “China is the real sick man of Asia” was published – although the three reporters had nothing to do with the piece.

The spat between China and Nepalese editors began on Tuesday, when ambassador Hou Yanqi said Beijing “reserves the right to further action” after The Kathmandu Post suggested China’s secrecy had made the virus outbreak worse.

A statement published by the embassy on Tuesday said that an opinion piece published that day under the headline “China’s secrecy has made coronavirus crisis much worse” had “deliberately smeared the efforts of the Chinese government and people fighting against the new coronavirus pneumonia and even viciously attacked the political system of China”.

The 551-word statement added: “We hereby express our strong dissatisfaction and firm protest to it. This [article] fully revealed [the paper’s] ignorance and prejudice on China, deeply hurt the feelings of the Chinese people, and sparked strong indignation and condemnation among the Chinese people and Nepali friends from all sectors.”

The embassy also took aim at the paper’s senior staff: “It is regrettable that Mr Anup Kaphle, Chief Editor of The Kathmandu Post, has always been biased on China-related issues. This time he went as far as disregarding the facts and becoming a parrot of some anti-China forces and, therefore, his ulterior purpose is destined to failure.

“The Chinese embassy in Nepal has made solemn representations to the newspaper and himself and reserves the right of further action.”

The article, also published in the Korea Herald, was written by Ivo Daalder, former US ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. The Nepalese paper published it along with an image of a masked Mao Zedong, a move which the embassy said had “malicious intention”.

Daalder wrote that Chinese President Xi Jinping had trumpeted the nation’s authoritarian system as a grand model for developing nations, but it has come at a great costs as the coronavirus outbreak showed.

“We may never know if the spread of the new virus could have been prevented by earlier, concerted action. But the fact that China chose secrecy and inaction turned the possibility of an epidemic into a reality,” it said. “Authoritarian political systems don’t do well when confronting unexpected crises, especially those like infectious diseases that require a rapid local response”.

The 17 editors condemned the embassy for naming the editor and issuing threats against the media. They accused it of “violating diplomatic norms”.

More than 75,700 people have been diagnosed with the virus in China. It has killed more than 2,120 people there and spread to nearly 30 countries.

Beijing said it was confident of controlling the virus, and emphasised its rapid response, including building a hospital within 10 days in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak. However, stories of attempted cover-ups and the stifling of speech widely reported by both Chinese and overseas media have challenged these claims.

The action against the WSJ staff was the first time in years the Chinese government had expelled a group of journalists from one news organisation.

Condemning the move, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo released a statement on Wednesday that said “mature, responsible countries understand that a free press reports facts and expresses opinions”.

But Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said on Thursday that media organisations that spread racial discrimination and smear China must pay a price.

Last month, the Chinese embassy in Denmark demanded an apology from the daily Jyllands-Posten after it published a cartoon of the Chinese flag with its five yellow stars represented by coronavirus particles.

© Reuters As Kathmandu, the Nepalese capital, battles coronavirus, it also finds itself in a war of words with Beijing over a newspaper article. Photo: Reuters

“Without any sympathy and empathy, it has crossed the bottom line of civilised society and the ethical boundary of free speech and offends human conscience,” the embassy said of the satirical cartoon.

In September 2005, the paper published a series of cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed, outraging Muslims, who considered the images to be blasphemous.

Purchase the China AI Report 2020 brought to you by SCMP Research and enjoy a 20% discount (original price US$400). This 60-page all new intelligence report gives you first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments and intelligence about China AI. Get exclusive access to our webinars for continuous learning, and interact with China AI executives in live Q&A. Offer valid until 31 March 2020.

More Articles from SCMP

Apple’s Little America series is a heart-warming and heartbreaking collection of immigrant stories

The coronavirus was unexpected – but Xi, the US trade war and Hong Kong are China’s black swans too

Hang Seng Index on track for weekly loss, as traders can't shake coronavirus jitters

Indonesia’s disappearing islands: a climate crisis wake-up call for Jakarta?

Xi Jinping and Moon Jae-in discuss coronavirus and Chinese leader’s planned visit to South Korea

This article originally appeared on the South China Morning Post (SCMP), the leading news media reporting on China and Asia. For more SCMP stories, please download our mobile app, follow us on Twitter, and like us on Facebook.

Copyright (c) 2020. South China Morning Post Publishers Ltd. All rights reserved.