LISBON, Portugal — Italian authorities are keeping some 7,000 people on a cruise ship while they check for a possible coronavirus infection.

Italian health authorities were screening 6,000 passengers and 1,000 crew aboard a cruise ship docked north of Rome after a passenger from Macao came down with flu-like symptoms, officials said Thursday.

The Costa Crociere cruise line, which is Carnival's Italian unit, said the 54-year-old woman and her partner, who has no symptoms, were immediately put into isolation Wednesday and the case reported to Italian maritime authorities.

Passengers of the Costa Smeralda were being kept on board Thursday pending checks to determine the type of virus.

Louisiana doctors on lookout for symptoms amid deadly coronavirus outbreak in China Louisiana health officials are warning hospitals and the public to watch for signs of a dangerous new virus following its rapid and deadly out…

The ship had sailed from Mallorca, Spain, to Civitavecchia, Italy, on a weeklong Mediterranean cruise but no passengers were allowed off for a planned walk in sunny Rome on Thursday.

“All the planned mechanisms were activated. Health authorities are on board, doing checks,” Italian Coast Guard Cmdr. Vincenzo Leone said at the port of Civitavecchia. “The situation is under control. There’s a security cordon on the dock.”

China has reported 170 deaths and at least 7,800 infections from the virus that emerged in the central city of Wuhan. More people have now been infected by this coronavirus in China than were sickened there during the 2002-2003 SARS epidemic. Sports, transport and cultural events have been canceled across the country, and over 50 million people are under a government lockdown in central China.

Over the last few days, Carnival's Costa Crociere, MSC, Royal Caribbean and Genting Cruise Lines have suspended all cruise operations in mainland China.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned Americans to avoid all nonessential travel to China because of the new coronavirus. The U.S. State Department raised its warning on China to Level 3, which urges people to “reconsider travel.” The agency also has a Level 4 (“do not travel) warning for the Hubei province, where the disease was first identified in Wuhan.

Reporting from the The Los Angeles Times via the Tribune Content Agency contributed to this story.