As the Coronavirus epidemic spreads; one of the negative responses to grow out of it has been an anti-Chinese sentiment.

The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Hubei province is jumping at an alarming rate, with more than 10,000 new confirmed cases in just four days.

Newly-released figures from Chinese officials show the number of confirmed cases rose from 549 on January 23, when the province went into lockdown, to 19,665 on February 5.

The viral outbreak has infected more than 28,200 people worldwide, 99 per cent of which are contained to the mainland.

China has had 563 deaths and 28,018 confirmed cases. The number of deaths on the mainland is rising at a worrying rate, with 73 in the last 24 hours.

The semi-autonomous territory of Hong Kong has had 21 cases, including one death, while Macau has had 10 cases.

There was also a death in the Philippines, which has confirmed three cases in total.

There are now 14 confirmed cases of the coronavirus in Australia, including four each in Queensland, NSW and Victoria, and two in South Australia.

Meanwhile, Japanese health officials have confirmed 20 passengers, including two Australians, have tested positive for the virus on a cruise ship anchored off the port of Yokohama.

About 3700 people, including more than 200 Australians, are facing at least two weeks quarantined on the Diamond Princess.

The virus has revived fears of the deadly 2002-2003 outbreak of SARS that killed almost 800 people.

Earlier, Prime Minister Scott Morrison warned Australia would take a hard economic hit from the coronavirus outbreak, compounding the costs of the bushfire crisis.

He said treasury officials are scrambling to model a range of scenarios as coronavirus continues to spread around the world.

There is a high level of uncertainty, and the economic impacts will largely depend on efforts to contain the spread of the deadly virus, but one thing is assured.

“Clearly the global effect of all of this, let alone the domestic – will combine to put, I think, a real weight on the economy,” he said today.

“There will be an economic hit because of the coronavirus, just as there will be as a result of the bushfires.

“We expect a hit, particularly in this quarter … how much more it extends beyond that really does depend on how this virus continues to play out at a global level.”

The economic alarm bell follows a dire warning from Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk that jobs in her state could go within weeks unless the federal government stumps up cash to help businesses survive.

Queensland’s tourism industry is being bled dry by travel bans, with the Cairns region alone losing $200 million in forward bookings, and exporters including seafood producers who service China losing their entire markets, she said.

“I don’t think we can wait weeks and months. I think this is something that we have to act on very, very quickly,” Ms Palaszczuk told ABC TV.

Despite the fears from Queensland, Reserve Bank governer Philip Lowe is remaining optimistic.

Speaking at the National Press Club this week, Dr Lowe predicted the impact of the devastating bushfires and the coronavirus will be short lived, in contrast to Prime Minister Scott Morrison who expects the the virus alone will have a “significant impact”.

Surprisingly, the central bank is sticking to its forecasts made last November that economic growth will pick up to 2.75 per cent by the end of this year and accelerate further to three per cent by the end of 2021.

That would be a significant lift from the mere 1.7 per cent growth recorded in the year to September 2019 — the last official reading for the economy.

Dr Lowe expects a pick-up in world growth to help the Australian economy, along with a renewed expansion in mining investment and a rebound in consumer spending.

Economists are less optimistic with ANZ Bank forecasting a contraction in the economy in the March quarter because of devastating bushfires and the coronavirus.

Westpac economists also expect the economy to stall in the first three months of the year because of the deadly virus and by the end of 2020 to be limping along at just 1.9 per cent, well shy of what the Reserve Bank is expecting

More Australian evacuees touched down on Christmas Island on Thursday, after being flown out of Wuhan, the Chinese city at the epicentre of the outbreak.

But the government is already making plans about what to do if the outbreak rolls on and the quarantine facility set up on Christmas Island reaches its 1200 person capacity.

Mr Morrison says defence officials are working to identify mainland sites to take any overflow, with hotels and mines as possible solutions.

The latest group to arrive on Christmas Island are 35 Australian citizens and permanent residents who left Wuhan on Wednesday.

They got out on an Air New Zealand flight that also took 98 New Zealanders and a number of others to Auckland.

The Australian group was then flown by charter plane to Christmas Island, where they have joined 241 evacuees from an earlier Qantas evacuation flight. All face a two-week quarantine process.

— with Tracy Ferrier, AAP