A Bangladeshi worker in Singapore has been diagnosed with coronavirus infection, said the Ministry of Health of Singapore.

The worker has no known recent travel history to China, reports The Straits Times, Singapore.

The 39-year-old has a work-pass and was taken to an isolation room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID).

His symptoms surfaced on February 1, and he went to a clinic on February 3, and Changi General Hospital on February 5. He was admitted to the intensive care unit at Changi General Hospital on February 7.

He was confirmed to have the coronavirus on Saturday afternoon, and was then transferred to the NCID.

The total number of people infected in Singapore has grown to 43.

The Daily Star could not independently verify the identity of the patient.

Meanwhile, health staffers in all international ports of entry across the country screened some 16,023 incoming passengers from different countries in the 24 hours until 8:00am yesterday.

None of the screened had any symptoms of novel coronavirus, according to the daily report on coronavirus surveillance by the directorate general of health services (DGHS).

Over the 24-hour period, Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport reported the highest number of passengers screened with 8,210.

Two other international airports -- MAG Osmani International Airport in Sylhet and Shah Amanat International Airport in Chattogram -- screened 488 and 434 passengers respectively.

All the land ports collectively screened a total of 6,891 inbound passengers in the last 24 hours.

The control room of the DGHS published the report a day after authorities stepped up surveillance in all land ports and seaports in line with the three international airports.

“We have initiated this surveillance reporting system from today [Sunday]. This will help us monitor every inbound passenger to prevent novel coronavirus from entering the country,” Dr Ayesha Akter, assistant director of the control room of DGHS, told The Daily Star.

Earlier on Thursday, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) at the DGHS sent 35 hand-held infrared thermometers, devices that check body temperature without coming in contact with patients, to all ports across the country.

Meanwhile, Director of the Institute of Epidemiology, Disease Control and Research (IEDCR) Professor Meerjady Sabrina Flora in her daily briefing urged everyone, especially journalists and doctors, to protect the patients’ privacy.

“Maintaining confidentiality of the patients suspected, tested or confirmed as infected is important. Otherwise, their personal and social security could be hampered,” the IEDCR director said.

She also urged people not to panic about the virus.

Meanwhile, the student who returned from China’s Anhui province 11 days ago and was admitted to Rangpur Medical College Hospital with breathing problems, is now well.

He has no symptom of novel coronavirus, the medical team confirmed after completing his health check-up, our correspondent reports.

On Saturday evening, cough and blood samples from the patient was sent to IEDCR in Dhaka for tests.

“We will inform about the test result as soon as we get it in hand,” ASM Alamgir, principal scientific officer of IEDCR, told The Daily Star.