NT NETWORK

Panaji

One more tourist suspected of having symptoms of novel coronavirus (nCoV) has been kept in the quarantine ward of the Goa Medical College and Hospital on Saturday, and her samples have been sent to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology.

State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar told ‘The Navhind Times’ that two young women tourists had come down to Goa. One of them showed symptoms of coronavirus. The woman visited a private clinic along with her friend. Thereafter the woman showing the virus symptoms was shifted to the GMC.

“They are not Chinese. But they work at a place which is located around

1,000 km away from China’s Wuhan city, the epicentre of the virus. Both women were travelling together,” he said.

After medical examination it was revealed that one of the women, aged 27 years, has a history of fever with upper respiratory tract infection. While her friend has been found to be asymptomatic.

“We didn’t want to take any chance. So we took blood and throat swab samples of the two tourists on Saturday evening and subsequently sent to the NIV for examination,” Dr Betodkar said.

Stating that a report of the samples is expected by Tuesday, the epidemiologist clarified that only the woman who has shown the symptoms of the particular virus has been quarantined.

It is pertinent to note that Goa’s first suspected case of coronavirus, a middle-aged tourist admitted at the GMC as a suspected case of the particular infection, tested negative for the deadly virus after samples were examined by the NIV.

The report received from the NIV had revealed that the case was negative, thus giving relief to the health department.

Eight more people have been put under watch by the directorate of health services soon after they returned from China. However, they have not shown any symptoms of the coronavirus.

PTI ADDS FROM NEW DELHI: As many as 324 Indians, evacuated from China’s Wuhan city, on Saturday reached here onboard Air India’s jumbo B747 aircraft and were admitted at the two quarantine facilities set up by the Army and the ITBP, though none of them have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, officials said.

The plane, carrying 211 students, 110 working professionals and three minors, reached Delhi around 7.30 am, they said, adding that none of them have tested positive for the coronavirus as yet.

Another flight of the airline, which departed for the Chinese city from here around 1.37 pm to bring back Indian nationals, reached Wuhan around 5.40 pm on Saturday, the officials said.

Five doctors from the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, who were onboard the first flight, are also in the second flight, an Air India spokesperson said.

Out of the total 324 who landed here this morning, 88 women, 10 men and six children were brought to the special quarantine facility of the ITBP in southwest Delhi’s Chhawla area, ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said.

The Army has also set up a quarantine facility in Manesar near Delhi to keep around 300 Indians being evacuated from China’s Hubei province in view of the coronavirus infection outbreak.

Separately, border-guarding force ITBP has set up a 600-bedded facility in southwest Delhi’s Chhawla area to quarantine and provide basic medical care to those suspected to have been affected by the virus.

The officials said the Indians evacuated from China will be monitored for any signs of the infection for a duration of two weeks by a qualified team of doctors and staff members.

The first flight had departed from Delhi airport at 1.17 pm on Friday to evacuate Indian nationals from China, where more than 250 people, none of them Indian, have died due to the deadly coronavirus infection.

Out of the 324 persons that have been evacuated through first Air India flight, 56, 53 and 42 are from Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, respectively.