CLOSE Airlines across the U.S. are scrambling to comply with the new travel restrictions implemented by Trump's administration. Buzz60

Another traveler has been quarantined at March Air Reserve Base near Moreno Valley, Calif., after returning from China, where the coronavirus developed and sickened thousands of people worldwide since last month.

The passenger flew into Los Angeles International Airport Monday and has been quarantined as a precaution, according to Riverside County officials.

LAX is among 11 airports U.S. citizens are being directed to if they are reentering the country from China, according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention.

Experts say the person, whose name hasn't been released, has shown no symptoms of coronavirus and is under a federal quarantine order through Friday.

Authorities have isolated the person from 195 others who've been at the air base since Wednesday.

Among them is a child who was taken to Riverside University Health System Medical Center for testing and observation Monday night after developing a fever.

The child was accompanied by a parent and testing results will be submitted to the CDC. Results are expected later this week.

Officials say neither they nor the other 193 passengers have tested positive for coronavirus.

This photo shows tents set up at March Air Reserve Base. They will be used to screen anyone coming from China, where the coronvirus outbreak has sickened thousands of people. (Photo: March Air Reserve Base)

Other impacts: Coronavirus could slow down shipments of Apple iPhones

Other impacts: Stocks in China slow amid fear of coronavirus

Coronaviruses are a family of viruses that often cause respiratory illnesses in humans and other illnesses in animals, according to the CDC. The new coronavirus is being referred to as the 2019 novel coronavirus, or 2019-nCoV.

It has similar symptoms to the flu, however, experts say anyone who is feeling sick should not immediately assume they have been infected. Experts have stressed the flu poses a bigger risk to the public.

The number of confirmed cases of the virus worldwide numbered 17,000 and the total confirmed deaths stood at 305 as of midday Sunday, according to data collected and mapped by Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Systems Science and Engineering.

Wuhan, China is the outbreak's epicenter and the Hubei province, which includes Wuhan, has reported 294 deaths.

According to the CDC, 260 people have been evaluated for coronavirus in 36 states and 11 of them tested positive in Arizona, California, Illinois, Massachusetts and Washington.

"I can tell you we have seen a spectrum of illness among cases in the U.S. and some of them seem pretty mild," Dr. Nancy Messonnier of the CDC National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases said during a Monday news conference. "At least a few have at least some point in the course of their illness been more severely ill. And there have been some ups and downs in the course of these patients that are sicker."

Of the remaining 249 people, 167 of them showed negative results and the rest are still pending.

The group at March Air Reserve Base is in the middle of a 14-day quarantine that kicked in last week after they arrived from Wuhan on a chartered flight. Most of them are U.S. diplomats and their family members, but none of them are from Riverside County.

Officials say one of the passengers was quarantined Wednesday night after attempting to leave the base, but specifics were never released.

Desert Sun reporter Colin Atagi covers crime, public safety and road and highway safety. He can be reached at Colin.Atagi@desertsun.com or follow him at @tdscolinatagi. Support local news, subscribe to The Desert Sun.

USA Today contributed to this story

Read or Share this story: https://www.desertsun.com/story/news/health/2020/02/04/passenger-quarantined-after-returning-lax-coronavirus-epicenter/4655432002/