The major general Qasem Soleimani’s funeral was held today and was attended by thousands of Iranian citizens who paid their respect to the army official while also directing their anger at those responsible for his death. Since his death on Friday Iran has exchanged a series of threats with the US, while Donald Trump has warned Tehran against any retaliatory strike.

In a threat to Ms Merkel and Mr Macron, mourners held placards with both their faces in the centre of targets. In the picture from the Iranian News Agency, the two European figures were joined by President Trump and Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. Accompanying the picture of the four figures, NBC News’ Tehran correspondent, Ali Arouzi wrote: “At Soleimani’s funeral it’s not just America that is the target of anger but Israel and Europe too.” In the wake of the ongoing crisis, European leaders have called for both sides to show restraint amid fears of sparking a regional war.

World war 3: Iran protestors target EU

World War 3: Thousands attend the funeral

Since last week, it has also been confirmed that Boris Johnson was unaware a strike on Iran was about to take place. After Iraqi MPs by passing a resolution calling for all foreign military presence to leave the country, Mr Johnson spoke to Prime Minister Adil Abdul-Mahdi on Monday morning. A No 10 spokesperson revealed the leaders had spoken about de-escalating tensions in the region. They added: “The prime minister underlined the UK’s unwavering commitment to Iraq’s stability and sovereignty and emphasised the importance of the continued fight against the shared threat from Daesh the Islamic State group.” JUST IN: WATCH: Iranian recalls surviving a Quds Force assassination attempt



World War 3: Mr Macrons and Ms merkel were both targeted

During the funeral procession, mourners began to chant “death to America” while there have been threats of “severe revenge” against the US. The major general has been hailed as a national hero and was widely considered as one of the most powerful figures in the country. The army official was the commander of the country’s elite Quds Force. The Quds Force, is an elite branch pf the military that has worked with militias in other countries such as Lebanon, Palestine and Iraq to provide a pro-Tehran agenda. DON'T MISS

World War 3: US President's plan to nuke SEVEN countries revealed [Latest]

WW3: Details of Iran's imminent military retaliation EXPOSED [Analysis]

EU unity crumbles: Iran causes split as Brussels rolls out red carpet [Latest]

World war 3: Soleimani was killed on Friday

World war 3: Ali Khamenei has declared action will be taken against the US

As well as vowing to strike back against the US, Tehran has insisted it will not abide by any of the restrictions within the 2015 nuclear deal. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action was signed in 2015 by Iran, China, the EU, France, Russia, the UK, Germany and the US, although Trump pulled out of the treaty in 2018. The treaty was designed to limit Tehran’s nuclear activities and allow inspectors to enter the country. Despite the warning, Trump declared on Twitter: “Iran will never have a nuclear weapon!”

Middle East Cold War mapped

Iranian President Hassan Rouhani sad the US had made a “grave mistake” in retaliation to Trump’s declaration. He also added that the US will face consequences of this criminal act not only today, but also in the coming years”. Soleimani’s replacement as head of the elite force, Esmail Qaani, swore revenge against America.

World war 3: Mourners descend on the capital

Trending