THOUSANDS of travelers are doing a voluntary self-quarantine after returning to the US from coronavirus-ridden China, officials say.

These US citizens are being asked to stay home for two weeks for precautionary reasons, according to NBC News, even though they are not likely to be a risk to their neighbors.

4 Jeri said her husband was rushed to a bio-containment unit after landing

4 One of thousands of coronavirus patients is treated in China Credit: AFP or licensors

4 The outbreak has wreaked havoc with travel all over the world Credit: AFP or licensors

"The travelers have all been very cooperative," Dr. Sherlita Amler, the health commissioner for New York's Westchester County, told NBC.

"They don't want to expose their friends and their family. They just want to be home and safe."

About 575 people in New York have been classified "medium risk," according to NBC. By contrast, 27 people are under self-quarantine in Iowa, and 10 in North Dakota.

In California alone about 7,000 people who returned after Feb. 2 have been told to "monitor their health, stay home and limit interactions with others as much as possible," according to the San Francisco Chronicle.

The precautionary edict impacts those who spent time outside of China's Hubei Province, where the epicenter of the deadly virus is located.

4 Evacuees from China arrive in Ukraine Credit: Reuters

More than 75,000 people have been infected around the world, but 74,576 of the reported cases are in China, where 2,000 people have died from the virus.

The US has had a total of 15 cases. A US citizen died from the coronavirus in China, according to officials.

Jeffrey Ho recently arrived in San Francisco after flying from the Hubei province and spending time in quarantine at Travis Air Force Base, but his wife and daughter are still in China.

"I felt more relieved day by day, minute by minute, when I boarded the plane," he told the San Francisco Chronicle.

"I think it was a good decision for keeping the general population of the US safe.

"It's safe to try to keep people quarantined just to make sure they don't cause an outbreak in San Francisco or something."

Health officials in China expressed optimism today after they reported a reduced number of new infections.

MOST READ IN NEWS TRAGIC FIND Body found in Evelyn search 'had identical clothing to what toddler wore' Exclusive 'They expected it' Spielberg's daughter says parents are 'relieved' about her porn career HORRIFIC Brutal dad 'broke baby girl's bones by folding her backward to stop her crying' 'THROWN FROM BALCONY' Mom 'dragged son, 11, from bunkbed & threw him off 4th-floor balcony' GOING VIRAL Coronavirus symptoms 'take five days to appear' - the 3 signs to watch for Investigation SICK SALES Inside 'pedo paradise' The Gambia where sex beasts are buying African kids

"The downward trend will not be reversed," said Ding Xiangyang, deputy chief secretary of the State Council.

The number of new cases in China declined today to 394, a shift from the 1,749 cases released a day before.

However, the country today returned to its prior way of counting cases. The higher counts had come when officials recorded new infections without waiting for laboratory results.

Passengers evacuated from Coronavirus-hit cruise ship as two die onboard

Do you have a story for The US Sun team?

Email us at exclusive@the-sun.com or call 212 416 4552.