China has denounced US-based reports accusing Beijing of posing a “global threat to human rights,” saying they have provided a distorted view of the truth from the country.

Human Rights Watch on Tuesday accused China of “mass detention” of the Uighur community at home and of trying to influence and censor others abroad.

US democracy watchdog group Freedom House released a similar report, accusing China of interfering in media overseas.

“Their China-related remarks and China-related reports have always ignored facts and confused right and wrong. There is no objectivity at all. So it is not worth refuting at all,” said China's Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang on Wednesday.

Kenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, holds up the group's World Report 2020 at the United Nations in the Manhattan borough of New York City, January 14, 2020. (Photo by Reuters)

China rejects claims of mistreating Uighurs, saying it has been taking anti-terrorism measures against separatists who are seeking to join Takfiri outfits such as al-Qaeda.

Geng said, “The current human rights situation in China is at its best period in history."

"China has always guaranteed freedom of speech to its citizens in accordance with the Constitution as well," he said.

On Sunday, Human Rights Watch's global head Kenneth Roth called on the international community to push back against "the most brutal and pervasive oppression China has seen in decades.”

Roth made the remarks at the UN Correspondents Association in New York after being denied entry to Hong Kong on Sunday.

He had been scheduled to release the report in the Chinese territory, which has been plagued by riots for months.

Geng said on Monday the plan indicated that Human Rights Watch is among the organizations supporting and instigating “anti-China activists ... to engage in radical violent crimes, and incite separatist activities hyping Hong Kong independence.”

“It is China’s sovereignty to allow one’s entry or not,” he added.

Beijing has constantly accused foreign powers, including the United States and Britain — the former colonial power in the city —, of stirring anti-establishment sentiments and interfering in the country’s internal affairs by voicing support for rioters.