Coronavirus cases in China outnumber SARS as countries scramble to evacuate their citizens

Updated

The number of people who have coronavirus in China has overtaken those who had SARS, though the death toll remains lower.

Key points: China agreed to let the World Health Organisation send a team of experts into the region

Foreign governments are organising evacuations for their residents trapped in Wuhan

Xi Jinping said China was fighting "a devil", according to state TV

The total number of confirmed cases in China has reached 5,974, health authorities said on Wednesday. China had 5,327 cases of SARS in the 2002-2003 outbreak, with 348 killed.

The death toll from the coronavirus outbreak in China has risen to 132, with health authorities at the centre of the epidemic reporting another 840 confirmed cases.

However, the Government in Beijing said it remained confident it could contain the disease.

China's Hubei province, at the centre of the outbreak, said another 25 patients had died in the province and reported 840 new cases by the end of Tuesday (local time).

Hubei's health authority said it had recorded 125 deaths and 3,554 cases by the end of Tuesday.

Dozens of infections of coronavirus have been confirmed outside mainland China as well.

The United Arab Emirates confirmed its first case of novel coronavirus on Wednesday, later upping the number to four. Those diagnosed are members of a Chinese family who arrived from Wuhan with the infection.

The outbreak began in Wuhan, the province's capital, and the majority of deaths and confirmed cases have been from the city.

Chinese President Xi Jinping said China was sure of defeating the "devil" coronavirus, but international alarm was rising as the outbreak spread across the world.

World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and Mr Xi met in Beijing to discuss how to protect Chinese and foreigners in areas affected by the virus, as well as possible evacuation alternatives, a WHO spokesman said.

"The virus is a devil and we cannot let the devil hide," state television quoted Mr Xi as saying.

"China will strengthen international cooperation and welcomes the WHO participation in virus prevention … China is confident of winning the battle against the virus."

China agreed that the WHO could send a team of international experts "as soon as possible" to increase understanding of the virus and guide the global response.

In Australia, Melbourne-based scientists became the first outside China to develop a lab-grown version of the disease, a major breakthrough in efforts to develop a vaccine.

A Russian consulate in China has announced Russia and China are working to develop a vaccine.

"Russian and Chinese experts have begun developing a vaccine," the Russian consulate in Guangzhou city said in a statement.

"The Chinese side handed over the virus genome to Russia, which has allowed our scientists to rapidly develop express-tests that make it possible to identify the virus in the human body within two hours."

It was not clear if Russian and Chinese scientists were working together or separately.

Russia does not yet have any confirmed cases of the virus but has begun screening all Russian tourists returning from China, and has closed some land borders it shares with China.

Travel bans and restrictions

On Wednesday, Australia confirmed its second case of the virus in Victoria, bringing the total number in the country to six.

It comes after Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced plans to evacuate "isolated and vulnerable" Australians trapped in Hubei province and transfer them to a quarantine centre on Christmas Island.

Foreign Minister Marise Payne warned Australians should not travel to the epicentre of the outbreak under any circumstances, and said any plans to travel to China should be reconsidered.

She said more than 600 Australians had registered as being in Hubei province.

British Airways has suspended all direct flights to and from mainland China after Britain warned against all but essential travel to the country due to the coronavirus outbreak.

BA.com, the airline's website, shows no direct flights to China are available in January and February.

"We apologise to customers for the inconvenience, but the safety of our customers and crew is always our priority," BA said in an emailed statement on Wednesday.

"Customers due to travel to or from China in the coming days can find more information on BA.com."

Indonesia's Lion Air as well as South Korea's Seoul Air have also announced all flights to China will be suspended.

The US warned that Americans should reconsider visiting China, while South Korea also advised its citizens to stay away.

"All options for dealing with infectious disease spread have to be on the table, including travel restrictions," a US health official said.

Facebook became the first major US company to announce a travel suspension after the US Government's warning, saying it had asked employees to halt non-essential travel to mainland China and to work from home if they had travelled there.

Europe's biggest bank, HSBC, banned all staff travel to Chinese-ruled Hong Kong for two weeks and to mainland China until further notice, according to an internal memo seen by Reuters.

Hundreds of non-locals evacuate

Several countries began evacuating their citizens from Wuhan on Wednesday.

Four evacuees on a flight from Wuhan have a cough and fever, Japanese officials said

Tokyo Metropolitan Government confirmed their condition after the flight of 206 evacuees arrived at a Tokyo airport on Wednesday morning.

It was not immediately known whether they were infected because coronavirus symptoms, including cough and fever and in severe cases pneumonia, are similar to many other illnesses.

Passengers on the flight were wearing masks and underwent temperature checks before boarding the plane.

The four include a woman in her 50s and three men whose ages are from their 30s to 50s.

They were taken to a Tokyo hospital in separate ambulances for treatment and further medical checks.

Plans have been made for all of the evacuees to be treated and quarantined depending on their test results.

An airplane that a federal official said was evacuating as many as 240 Americans from Wuhan landed in the United States on Wednesday.

The US Government chartered the plane to fly out diplomats from the US Consulate in Wuhan and other US citizens.

The plane will make a refuelling stop in Alaska before flying on to Southern California, the US Embassy in China said.

The US said it was expanding screening of arrivals from China from five to 20 airports and considering imposing further travel curbs.

The European Commission said it would help fund two aircraft to fly EU citizens home, with 250 French nationals leaving on the first flight.

South Korea also said it would also send a plane, and France, Mongolia and other governments also planned evacuations, while Hong Kong — a scene of anti-China unrest for months — planned to suspend rail and ferry links with the mainland.

China has cut off access to Wuhan and 16 other cities in Hubei province to prevent people from leaving and spreading the virus further.

The lockdown has trapped more than 50 million people in the most far-reaching disease control measures ever imposed.

Reuters/ABC

Topics: health, foreign-aid, government-and-politics, diseases-and-disorders, infectious-diseases-other, respiratory-diseases, china, asia

First posted