PESHAWAR/KOHAT: Parents of Pakistani students enrolled in the educational institutions of China’s Wuhan province have demanded of the federal government to immediately evacuate their children following the outbreak of deadly coronavirus.

Belonging to different parts of the province, they told reporters here that Pakistani students living in Wuhan were at risk from coronavirus.

The parents said they contacted the Foreign Office many times about the children’s plight but didn’t ‘positive response’.

They claimed that the US, Australia and Japan had evacuated their citizens from Wuhan, while India, South Korea and other countries were sending airplanes there for the purpose but Pakistani authorities had yet to do anything to move Pakistani youths out of the Chinese province.

The parents demanded the government send a charter plane to Wuhan to evacuate Pakistani students totalling 500. They regretted the indifference of the government to the misery of Pakistanis living in Wuhan province. The parents also asked the Supreme Court chief justice and army chief for intervention.

They wondered if the UK could evacuate its citizens, then why Pakistan couldn’t do so for the safety of own citizens.

In Kohat, parents and relatives of the students enrolled in China expressed concern about the indifference shown by the government towards the plight of Pakistani students trapped in the Chinese province of Wuhan after the outbreak of coronavirus.

They demanded the government bring their relatives back like other countries to protect them from the deadly disease.

Staging a protest at the Martyrs Square along with civil society activists and businesspersons, the parents of the students said they had learned that the deadly virus had spread to every Chinese province and thus, endangering the lives of Pakistanis enrolled in educational institutions and doing business.

They demanded that like its Sri Lankan, American and British counterparts, the Pakistani government ensure the immediate evacuation of students from Wuhan province.

Published in Dawn, January 31st, 2020