TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE — A new group of Americans were scheduled to arrive for quarantine Sunday night at Travis Air Force Base after leaving Japan and flown by charter jets early Monday in Japan, back to the U.S.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced plans Saturday to bring more American evacuees to both Travis Air Force Base and Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland in Texas.

Several hundred U.S. citizens have been kept aboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship off Yokohama, Japan, since dozens and later hundreds of passengers on the ship became ill and were ultimately confirmed to have a potentially deadly coronavirus, dubbed COVID-19, that has seen tens of millions of people under travel restrictions across large swaths of mainland China.

The World Health Organization reports a total of 51,857 laboratory-confirmed cases of the virus as of Sunday, with 1,278 new cases in the 24 hours since Saturday and 1,278 dead as a result of the virus. Published reports put the death toll above 1,600. The bulk of those who have contracted the virus are in China; 683 laboratory-confirmed cases have occurred outside China across 25 countries, to include 157 new cases in the 24 hours since Saturday and three deaths.

A total of 15 confirmed cases of the virus had been reported in the U.S. as of Friday with 347 suspected cases testing negative for the virus and 81 cases pending laboratory analysis, the CDC reports. Some of the confirmed cases are in California.

The first group of evacuees from mainland China arrived Feb. 5 at Travis Air Force Base to begin a 14-day quarantine. Another flight arrived Feb. 7 and dropped off another 55 evacuees on its way to San Antonio.

There was concern early in the initial quarantine that some of those housed at the Westwind Inn at the base had contracted the virus. Those concerns ultimately proved unfounded.

The CDC reported Wednesday that five people under quarantine at Travis from Wuhan, China, tested negative for a the new novel coronavirus.

All five – one from the Feb. 5 flight of evacuees and four from the Feb. 7 flight – had displayed symptoms related to coronavirus and were hospitalized and placed in isolation, the CDC reports, but samples came back negative for all five.

The CDC last week also updated the number of people quarantined at the Westwind Inn to 233. A clerical error had incorrectly noted the number previously as 234. It was discovered that one of the returning passengers was being counted twice, the CDC reports.

People arriving Sunday at Travis were screened prior to leaving Japan, were monitored on the flight and would be screened once again upon arrival at the base, Travis officials and the CDC report. Anyone who displays signs of illness will be transported to an off-base facility in accordance with U.S. Department of Health and Human Services guidance.

Some evacuees were to remain at Travis. They will be kept separate from previous evacuees, the CDC reports. Others will continue on to San Antonio.