The official Xinhua News Agency said Thursday the city also asked people not to leave Wuhan without specific reasons.

The state-owned People’s Daily newspaper said in a tweet that no one would be allowed to leave the city starting at 10 a.m. and that train stations and the airport will shut down. It said city buses, subways, ferries and long-distance shuttle buses would also be temporarily closed, citing Wuhan authorities.

In Geneva, the World Health Organization said it had put off deciding whether to declare the outbreak a global health emergency and asked its expert committee on the issue to continue their meeting for a second day Thursday. The organization defines a global emergency as an “extraordinary event” that constitutes a risk to other countries and requires a coordinated international response.

The death toll associated with the Wuhan coronavirus has risen to 17, as more reports are surfacing of suspected outbreaks in Russia, Mexico and Africa.

The latest death toll was reported Wednesday by Sina Weibo, a Chinese microblogging website and one of the nation’s biggest social media platforms with more than 445 million monthly active users. The platform also said there are now 543 confirmed coronavirus cases in China.

On Tuesday, the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control confirmed the first U.S. coronavirus case. The man, in his 30s, is identified as a Snohomish County, Washington, resident, who returned last week from Wuhan. He is being treated at the Providence Regional Medical Center and is in isolation.

VIDEO: Wuhan coronavirus surfaces in Washington state

According to the CDC, the patient returned from Wuhan on Jan. 15.

»MORE: What is the Wuhan coronavirus?

In Russia, two people have reportedly been hospitalized in St. Petersburg, with virus-like symptoms.

A man suspected of a new Chinese coronavirus was hospitalized in Pulkovo. This is a 23-year-old Russian citizen Arman K. Today he flew to St. Petersburg from Shanghai. The guy was urgently taken with a temperature of 38 degrees from the Pulkovo checkpoint, he is in the hospital. — (@mash_breaking)Jan 22 2020

Late Tuesday, Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said one person remains under observation as a possible case of the virus.

#President Conference. On the coronavirus he reported that there are two possible cases: one has already been ruled out and the other is under observation in Tamaulipas. — (@jenarovillamil)Jan 22 2020

The World Health Organization has convened its emergency committee to address the outbreak.

@DrTedros @WHOWPRO @WHOSEARO @pahowho @WHOEMRO @WHO_Europe @WHOAFRO The Emergency Committee on the new #coronavirus (2019-nCoV) meets today to ascertain whether the outbreak constitutes a public health emergency of international concern, and what recommendations should be made to manage it https://t.co/Qtsxqkr7xi — (@WHO)Jan 22 2020 Last week, the CDC began implementing public health entry screening at the San Francisco, New York (JFK) and Los Angeles airports. The agency has added screenings at the Atlanta and Chicago airports.



Initial symptoms of the new coronavirus include fever, cough, tightness of the chest and shortness of breath.

The first cases late last month were connected to a seafood market, and transmission was thought to be occurring from animals to humans. Authorities previously had not confirmed human-to-human transmission.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, some causing illness in people and others that circulate among animals, including camels, cats and bats, according to the CDC, which is working with the World Health Organization to monitor the outbreak.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Support real journalism. Support local journalism. Subscribe to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution today. See offers.

Your subscription to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution funds in-depth reporting and investigations that keep you informed. Thank you for supporting real journalism.