Coronavirus doctor, 28, drops dead after 10 days fighting on frontline

Song Yingjie was battling the virus on the frontline for 10 days.

A Chinese doctor has died suddenly after fighting coronavirus on the frontline for 10 days in a row.Song Yingjie, 28, was working at a local clinic in Hunan Province, which borders the epicentre of the outbreak Hubei. He collapsed and died of a cardiac arrest, reportedly brought about by exhaustion. The young doctor had been tasked with checking drivers and passengers on a motorway and worked relentlessly since January 25, according to officials.

SEE ALSO :China virus cases spike, 17 new infections reported

Medics and doctors have been working round the clock in China to halt the spread of the deadly virus. New hospitals have been built in a matter of days to treat victims, with the death toll on the Chinese mainland jumping overnight to 563, an increase of 70, the largest yet. Meanwhile, 20 passengers on a quarantined cruise ship off Yokohama, Japan, have tested positive for coronavirus, with a British couple among the thousands stranded on board.

For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper. Subscribe Now »

Mr Song, a native of Kaiyun Town in Hengshan County, died after returning to his dormitory early on Monday. His sister, 29, is currently stranded in Wuhan which has been in quarantine for nearly two weeks.

SEE ALSO :China confirms virus spreading between humans

She said she couldn't help but blame herself for not having left Wuhan before the lockdown and supported her brother during the difficult time. She described her sibling as 'outstanding' and 'thoughtful' and could not believe he had died. "He always helped with housework at home and was regarded highly at work by his boss," she told a local news outlet. "His passing is really devastated news to our family," she added. Mr Song's father told the same website: "My daughter is in Wuhan and can't come back. It's on lockdown. You asked me if I am worried, of course I am.

SEE ALSO :Factbox: What we know about the new coronavirus spreading in China and beyond

"Then my son worked [as a medic] on the highway. You asked me if I am scared... Now he died, I am heartbroken." Local officials said they were assisting Mr Song's family to deal with the aftermath. A baby was born with coronavirus in China after contracting the killer virus in the womb. And in Austria, a 31-year-old woman suspected of having coronavirus sparked panic when she fled her isolation ward.

Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE.