Sign up to FREE email alerts from TeessideLive - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A convicted "creepy" primary school teacher applied to work in China after the sex assault allegations emerged.

Johnathan Clayton was convicted by a jury of 13 counts of sexual assault on children under the age of 13 on Tuesday after a trial at Teesside Crown Court.

He had previously faced similar allegations at a previous school around two years ago before they were dropped.

After the guilty verdicts, the court heard representation that supply teacher Clayton should be granted bail until his sentencing hearing on February 26.

But prosecutor Richard Bennett said he should be remanded in custody, explaining how Clayton "sought to obtain employment in China" after he was barred from working in the UK following the latest allegations.

A judge remanded him in custody until his sentencing date.

After he was convicted, the supply firm said important information about the dropped prosecution was "withheld" and claimed that the first school, where he previously worked, recommended him.

A spokeswoman for Vision for Education said the firm took its safeguarding responsibilities seriously, and references were obtained from previous employers.

She said: "In this instance, all of the statutory checks relating to the candidate were clear but information relating to the previous allegations was withheld from us and, instead, the school where the first allegations were made expressly confirmed that the candidate was suitable to work with children and that they would recommend the candidate for employment."

The spokeswoman added the firm suspended him immediately after they were informed about the latest accusations, made at the second school in 2019, and officials assisted the police with their inquiry.

"Our thoughts are with the victims and their families, who have shown immense bravery throughout this investigation and trial," she said.

(Image: Teesside Live)

A spokesman for the head of education and skills at the council authority area where Clayton had worked, said procedures were followed.

He said: "In this case, appropriate steps were taken by the school and relevant agencies were informed as soon as an allegation was made.

"The school complied fully with a police investigation prior to criminal proceedings being discontinued by the Crown Prosecution Service and a not guilty verdict recorded.

"Having considered that verdict and government guidance on giving references in such circumstances, appropriate information was supplied through the reference process as well as to the Teaching Regulation Authority and the Disclosure and Barring Service."

Clayton, 27, who had denied the offences,- left the children feeling “uncomfortable” and was labelled “weird” and “creepy” by one victim, the court heard previously.

The attacks were carried out at a school outside the Teesside area which cannot be named for legal reasons.

The jury was out for 10 hours and 39 minutes. The verdicts were unanimous on all but one of the charges.

Clayton, of Carlton, Stockton, stood with his head bowed and at times appeared to shake his head and look towards the public gallery as the verdicts were delivered.

(Image: Terry Blackburn)

There were gasps and tears in the gallery as the verdicts were read out.

He has been told to expect to go to prison when he is sentenced later this month.

Clayton had faced previous sex assault allegations in 2017 - which were dropped.

It emerged during the trial that the school where the offences took place were unaware of the allegations when they employed Clayton.

Prosecutors said Clayton had a sexual interest in young girls and that the assaults were “momentary and opportunistic” and done for his sexual gratification.

Judge Howard Crowson said: "You have been convicted of 13 counts of sexual assault of one form or another of pupils under your care. I'm going to defer forming a concluded view about you until I have read a report about you from the probation service."

He added it was a matter of "grave concern" that Clayton had sought to work in a school.

Judge Crowson warned him: "You will receive a prison sentence."

He was remanded in custody and will appear for sentence on February 26.