Canton Repository investigation triggers action by Stark County Prosecutor John Ferrero.

CANTON Stark County Prosecutor John D. Ferrero has formed a team of investigators to examine death rulings by former Coroner Gus Shaheen.

The move was prompted by The Canton Repository’s stories last year about questionable rulings by Shaheen during his time in office from 1962 through 1980:

• "The Madam Must Die," a five-part series in October on the 1974 murder of Carla Dellerba, which he’d ruled a suicide.

• "The Shaheen Files," a three-part series in December based on a review of his more than 8,600 cases. It uncovered cases Shaheen should have ruled homicides, but did not, as well as unsupported, suspicious rulings and sloppy work.

SPECIAL REPORT | Read the entire Gus Shaheen series here

Ferrero said his team’s review doesn’t have a time limit, and that it is important to set the record straight on Shaheen’s time in office. The former coroner died in 1989.

"Even though it might be pretty remote that anything could be done, I think we still need to do this for the victims’ families...," Ferrero said. "If we can give them some answers, OK. If not, at least we tried."

The review team includes representatives of the FBI, the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation, the Stark County Sheriff’s Office and the prosecutor’s office.

Ferrero said the committee, led by Criminal Division Chief Fred Scott, will look at Shaheen’s cases, determine if a suspect can be identified and whether further investigation is possible. If so, the cases will be sent to local police agencies, with whom the prosecutor’s office will work to build a case.

The committee comprises:

• Scott Beard, prosecutor’s office investigator and retired Canton Police lieutenant.

• Inspector William Jones, Stark County Sheriff’s Office.

• Mark McMurtry, FBI.

• Cory Momchilov, Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation, Cold Case Unit.

"With the committee we have, I think we can cover all bases," Ferrero said.

The review will likely include some of the cases highlighted by the Repository, as well as cases brought to the prosecutor’s attention by the public. Ferrero said he has already received two calls about Shaheen cases.

The prosecutor is asking anyone with concerns about a Shaheen ruling to contact Beard at 330-451-7987.

Reach Tim at 330-580-8333 or tim.botos@cantonrep.com.

On Twitter: @tbotosREP

Reach Shane at 330-580-8338 or shane.hoover@cantonrep.com

On Twitter: @shooverREP