Police said that identifying the accused was difficult as all residents of the area were wearing the masks. | Photo Credit: Representative Image

Key Highlights The incident took place in the Jingshan area near Wuhan

The sex offender has been identified as 35-year-old Xiao

The accused finally turned himself in on Monday and allegedly confessed to the crime

New Delhi: Showing her presence of mind, a woman shooed away her would-be rapist by telling the accused that she hails from the Chinese city of Wuhan.

The incident took place in the Jingshan area near Wuhan when a 35-year-old man broke into the bedroom of the woman late into the night. The sex offender has been identified as Xiao. There has been a complete panic across many Chinese cities after the outbreak of Coronavirus, which has killed over 490 people in the country.

According to a report in London-based Daily Mail, as the accused tried to sexually assault the woman, the victim started to cough badly and warned Xiao that she is from the city of Wuhan.

Coughing and shouting

The victim, who was in a healthy condition, though, shouted, "I have just returned from Wuhan and have been infected and thus I am living alone in self-quarantine."

She pretended to cough as the attacker tried to strangle her and cover her mouth. During the scuffle, the accused paid heed to the woman's shoutings and got scared. The accused then fled from the house but not before robbing her of Rs 31,000.

The incident was reported from Pingba, a township on the outskirts of Jingshan, a 3-hour drive from the city of Wuhan. The matter came to light after Jingshan police posted about the matter on social media.

How accused was nabbed

According to police, the man had no money and decided to rob the woman. But when he saw the woman alone, he also decided to sexually assault the woman. The accused Xiao is a local resident.

As Xiao fled from the house, the woman immediately called the police who launched a manhunt for the accused. Police said that identifying the accused was difficult as all residents of the area were wearing the masks for protection from coronavirus.

According to investigators, the accused finally turned himself in on Monday and allegedly confessed to the crime. He was accompanied by his father to the police station.