As Hong Kong reported its first death from the coronavirus, United said Tuesday the airline would end its daily flight from San Francisco to the city Saturday.

United, the largest carrier at San Francisco International, had already suspended flights to and from other cities in China, where the outbreak has killed hundreds and infected tens of thousands. The Hong Kong flight, which United had previously said it would keep as a link to the region, will remain suspended until Feb. 20. The last outbound United flight will leave for the semiautonomous Chinese territory Wednesday, and service will end with a return flight on Friday.

The other United flights will remain off the airline’s schedule until the end of March. Other carriers still have service to China, though it is not clear how long those flights will continue.

The new coronavirus has infected more than 24,000 people worldwide, and killed nearly 500, since it was first reported at the end of last year. There have been 11 cases in the United States.

The United States instituted a travel ban Sunday on foreign nationals who have been to China in the past two weeks, with exemptions for permanent residents and close family members. It has also limited the airports where flights from China can arrive, to centralize health screenings.

SFO is one of 11 airports in the U.S. where arriving passengers can be screened for the coronavirus. Some reported chaotic hours-long waits on Sunday after new travel restrictions went into effect. But new screening protocols from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are in place and wait times appear to be returning to normal, the airport said Tuesday.

When the coronavirus became a global health emergency, Castro Valley resident Josiah Li was in China visiting family for the Lunar New Year. Everyone wore masks, Li said, and he had his temperature checked getting on the ferry, bus, metro, in the mall and at the grocery store. As the virus death toll rose, he changed his flight so he and his family could return home earlier.

Li’s flight from the southern city of Guangzhou in Guangdong province was one of the first to arrive after new travel restrictions went into effect Sunday. Li, who is a U.S. citizen, said a couple of fellow passengers were denied boarding. With restrictions barely in place Sunday when he stepped off the plane at SFO, Li said the situation felt chaotic. He described how he was funneled from the normal customs line into a room where he explained his travel history and filled out forms for CDC staff, then went back through customs. It took him more than three hours, he said.

All passengers arriving at SFO from China, as well as those coming from elsewhere who have been in China recently, are sent to the airport’s quarantine station, CDC spokesman Scott Pauley said Tuesday. The station was in place before the coronavirus outbreak but has increased staffing.

Anyone who was in Hubei province, epicenter of the outbreak, in the last 14 days gets stricter screening: a nasal swab test, a temperature check with a thermometer that doesn’t touch the skin, and checking for fever, cough and difficulty breathing. If Hubei travelers have symptoms, they’ll be isolated for 14 days for further treatment. Even if they don’t, they’ll still be subject to a mandatory two-week quarantine. The CDC said it is still working with state governments, including California, to determine where travelers will be quarantined.

Travelers who’ve been in other parts of mainland China will go through similar screening. If they have symptoms, they will get treatment. Those connecting through San Francisco won’t be able to continue their itinerary. If they don’t have symptoms, they’ll be allowed to reach their final destination but asked to stay home as much as possible and monitor their health for another two weeks.

Passenger Carolyn Blake, who arrived at SFO from London on Sunday, said in a message that the small quarantine area in the immigration hall didn’t seem secure or clean. Both she and Li were concerned about so many passengers in a confined space if someone did have the coronavirus.

Preliminary research is still mixed on whether people with the coronavirus can transmit it even when they don’t display symptoms, said Art Reingold, UC Berkeley epidemiology professor. Transmission from people who are not coughing or sneezing “is thought to be infrequent and not important to how outbreaks are propagated,” Reingold said.

But “at least we must behave as if that’s a possibility and err on the side of caution,” he added.

Pauley said screening waits depended on how many passengers and CDC staff are present.

Some passengers on Sunday said they waited for up to six hours. U.S. Customs and Border Protection data shows that average wait times at SFO peaked at 85 minutes at 6 p.m. Sunday, four hours after the restrictions went into effect. Average wait times on the four previous Sundays at the same time ranged from 14 to 26 minutes.

Jaime Ruiz, a spokesman for the border agency, said in an email that wait times vary depending on the day, week and season. He said delays this past weekend at SFO were weather-related or caused by overlapping flights, not screenings for the coronavirus.

By Monday morning, some travelers at SFO told The Chronicle they breezed through immigration. SFO spokesman Doug Yakel said in an email Tuesday that wait times appear to be returning to normal.

Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, said in a press call Monday that despite precautions, there are still likely to be infections among returning travelers. There are four confirmed cases in Northern California — two patients in Santa Clara County and a husband and wife from San Benito County who were moved to UCSF for treatment on Monday.

Five health care workers at Good Samaritan Hospital in San Jose were exposed to the new coronavirus while treating a patient there and have been sent home and told to remain isolated until Feb. 11, according to Santa Clara County public health officials.

The workers had contact with a man who had sought treatment at the hospital and later tested positive for the virus.

The man in Santa Clara County had sought medical care outside his home twice, public health officials said. They found the five health care workers who are now in isolation as part of an effort to trace those who have come into contact with infected individuals.

The workers are being kept at home “to protect the public’s health and limit any potential spread of the virus,” Santa Clara County public health officials said in a statement.

Quarantine plans were more advanced for Americans being evacuated directly from Wuhan, the city in Hubei province hardest hit by the outbreak.

About 250 Americans traveling from China were expected to land in the Bay Area Tuesday night or early Wednesday and be quarantined at Travis Air Force Base in Fairfield for up to two weeks while being monitored for signs of infection.

The evacuees will stay at Travis’ Westwind Inn, where they will undergo regular checks for fever and other symptoms of respiratory illness, according to a spokesman for Rep. John Garamendi, D-Fairfield.

Travis was selected as one of four military sites to quarantine Americans returning from China.

Mallory Moench and Erin Allday are a San Francisco Chronicle staff writers. Email: mallory.moench@sfchronicle.com, eallday@sfchronicle.com Twitter:@mallorymoench, @erinallday