Sign up to FREE email alerts from GrimsbyLive - Daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

Jingye officials have offered reassurance over the delicately poised deal to take over British Steel in the wake of Foreign Office travel guidance urging against visiting China following the coronavirus outbreak.

Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab warned against "all but essential travel" to the whole of China earlier this week and the first two cases of the virus in the UK were confirmed yesterday.

However Chinese steel giant Jingye, which is poised to take over British Steel and its Scunthorpe steelworks, has downplayed any possible impact of the outbreak on the deal.

Delegations from Jingye have been travelling between China and North Lincolnshire for several months.

Jingye, based in Hebei province, is more than 600-miles from the centre of the coronavirus outbreak in the city of Wuhan which is in Hubei province.

(Image: Getty Images)

Chinese officials have now confirmed at least one death in Hebei and one in the Chinese capital Beijing, which the province surrounds. Transport links between provinces have been suspended and in some villages people have been barricading their communities amid fears the virus will spread.

More than 210 people have now died in the country, with confirmed infections surging to almost 10,000.

Hubei province has been on lockdown for several days as China seeks to contain the illness.

Jingye has said that the situation with the virus is very concerning and it is closely monitoring the updates.

But a spokesman for the company said it remained fully committed to the British Steel deal.

The spokesman said many of Jingye's personnel involved have been in the UK and Europe for some time and wouldn't be affected by travel restrictions, while other work can be completed remotely.

(Image: Lindsey Parnaby/AFP/Getty Images)

Outside China, more than 100 cases of the virus have been reported in 22 countries, including Australia, Singapore, Thailand and France.

The first two cases in the UK were confirmed yesterday, with both coming from the same family. They are understood to have been staying in a hotel in Yorkshire and were treated at Castle Hill Hospital near Hull before being transferred to a specialist centre in Newcastle.

A flight landed in the UK from Wuhan yesterday, carrying 83 Britons and 23 foreign nationals.

On Tuesday evening, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office updated its travel advice to urge UK citizens to avoid the country, adding it may become more difficult for British nationals in other provinces to leave.

The Foreign Office added UK nationals in China should "make decisions based on their own personal circumstances" over whether to leave.

At the time, Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said: "Due to the increasing travel restrictions and the public health situation, we now advise against all but essential travel to China.

"We are also working urgently to finalise arrangements for an assisted departure from Hubei Province for British nationals this week, and are in contact with people in Hubei to ensure they register their interest and that we can keep them updated.

"The UK continues to be guided by the latest medical advice about the coronavirus outbreak. The safety and security of British people will always be our top priority."

(Image: Jingye)

China has imposed travel restrictions between its major cities while the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has suspended all tour group companies' activities to prevent further virus spread.

A British teacher living in Wuhan, who asked not to be named, told the Press Association earlier this week that she had been in contact with the British authorities who informed her while she could return to the UK, her husband, who has a UK visa, would not be allowed to as he was a Chinese national.

It is understood that this was a result of restrictions imposed by China, rather than the UK.

As a result, she decided that she would remain in China with her husband.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

She said: "It's what we were expecting to be honest, as we'd heard that it was like that for the American flight out. We had hoped it would be different, but oh well.

"If the situation stays as it is, or improves, then we're fine. We just hope it won't get any more serious."

She added that a number of other Britons she was in contact with had arranged to return home.

The Department of Health and Social Care said earlier this week that 97 people in the UK had been given the all-clear for the virus.

Meanwhile, reports from Japan and Germany suggested cases of coronavirus in people with no history of travel to Wuhan.

Scientists were also working on emerging evidence which suggests the virus can be spread by people before they even develop symptoms.

This could hamper efforts to contain the virus as people who have no indication they are ill go about their usual daily lives.