Midland takes extra precautions for coronavirus Midland health director puts risk into perspective; says risk low for general U.S. public

As reports of the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) spread, Midland County Health Department director and health officer, Fred Yanoski, said the risk remains low for the general public in the United States.

He said they haven't had a lot of public inquiries about it at the department, but that it's important to keep risk in perspective. At this time, the greatest risk is to those who have recently traveled to China or who have had close, personal contact with someone who has.

"There is still much that we do not know about this particular coronavirus, and the situation is evolving rapidly," he said. "Public health officials will continue to monitor the situation and advise the public accordingly."

On Friday, MidMichigan Health announced it is taking extra precautions with visitors for the remainder of the flu season.

"Only those visitors who are healthy, without symptoms of illnesses, will be allowed to visit patients at MidMichigan's Medical Centers in Alpena, Clare, Gladwin, Gratiot, Midland, Mt. Pleasant and West Branch," the announcement stated. "In addition, upon registration for Medical Center appointments, patients will continue to be screened for recent travel outside of the country."

The coronavirus is a respiratory illness that was first detected in Wuhan City, China. There have been thousands of reports of infection in China and more than 200 people have died in China, according to several other news outlets. On Thursday, the International Health Regulations Emergency Committee of the World Health Organization declared the outbreak a "public health emergency of international concern."

The virus can be transmitted through the air by coughing or sneezing, by close, personal contact such as shaking hands, by touching an object or surface with the virus on it and then touching your eyes, mouth, or nose, and in rare cases, through fecal contamination, according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Symptoms include runny nose, cough headache, sore throat, fever and a general feeling of being unwell, according to the CDC.

As of Friday, the United States has issued a "level 4" travel advisory for China, and multiple airline companies have halted flights to mainland China.

With global corporations in Midland, such as Dow, DuPont and others, there may be local employees who travel outside the country for work.

According to DuPont Reputation and Media Relations Leader Dan Turner, DuPont is closely monitoring the recent outbreak of cases of pneumonia caused by the coronavirus, and it is also actively managing the impacts to its people and locations.

"We have issued travel advisories for all DuPont employees - at this time, travel for China is 'suspended' to Hubei province including Wuhan; travel to the rest of China is 'business critical only," he said in a statement earlier this week.

The virus has been detected in the United States. As of Friday afternoon, there are six patients who have tested positive in the United States, with another 121 people pending diagnosis, according to the CDC. States with confirmed cases include Arizona, Illinois, California and Washington.