ASIC alleges that on or about August 1, 2014, when Bellamy’s floated on the ASX, Ms Cameron and her associate, Black Prince, amassed a substantial holding of 14 million shares.

Black Prince controlled 14.74 per cent of Bellamy’s at that time and it is alleged that on or about August 5, Ms Cameron failed to disclose that interest as required.

ASIC also alleges that on or about February 15, 2017, Ms Cameron lodged an initial substantial holder notice that was misleading since it failed to disclose her complete relationship with Black Prince.

Cameron and The Black Prince

Ms Cameron had long denied any links to Black Prince.

"I don't have any connection to The Black Prince Foundation. But we are part of a group that represents about 35 per cent of the share register," Ms Cameron told The Australian Financial Review in January 2017.

About two weeks later she told the Financial Review she was "naively hoping" to keep a donation to the Elsie Cameron Foundation private, rather than "splashed across the news".

He comments came after it was revealed that she and her former long-time lawyer, Rodd Peters, were directors and shareholders of the charitable entity, Elsie Cameron Foundation, to which Bellamy's largest shareholder Black Prince was answerable.

Advertisement

Black Prince was set up by Trustmoore, an investment trust company with offices in tax havens around the world, on behalf of its client, Elsie Cameron Foundation.

At that time, Bellamy's chairman Rob Woolley called on regulators to investigate whether Black Prince was acting in concert with others, and should be forced to launch a takeover bid after Ms Cameron's links to the group were confirmed.

While the board always suspected that Ms Cameron was behind Black Prince, there was no proof until the issuing of a tracing notice in 2017 as part of its defence against the dissident shareholder group led by Ms Cameron.

Bellamy's nearly collapsed in late 2016, following missteps in China. Ms Cameron was eventually successful in the battle for Bellamy's, tossing the board and installing her ally Chan Wai-Chan and Mr Peters as directors

Black Prince had no other investments and had not sold or bought any Bellamy's stock since making its initial investment at the Bellamy's IPO.

Ms Cameron directly held a 2 per cent stake, also held via the Elsie Cameron Foundation, which was set up by Ms Cameron in her mother's name for environmental interests.

Many suggested Black Prince may be related to the collapse of Ms Cameron’s former company, Retail Adventures, which went into liquidation in 2012. Ms Cameron said in mid-January 2017 she was not trying to hide her wealth via a complex web of offshore entities in order to dodge tax or possible creditors from prior failed business ventures.

Possible penalties

Advertisement

Ms Cameron - who was a director of Bellamy’s between May 14, 2007 and May 5, 2011 - has been charged with contravening sections 671B(1) and 1308(2) of the Corporations Act.

The maximum penalty applying in August 2014 for failing to lodge a substantial holder notice was six months’ imprisonment and/or a $4250 fine, while the maximum for making a false or misleading statement in a document lodged to ASIC in 2017 is five years’ jail, and/or a $36,000 fine.

If Ms Cameron is convicted of the latter offence, then she would automatically be disqualified as a director of any company.

The matter is being prosecuted by the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions.