SAN FRANCISCO — California health officials said Friday that 7,600 people who returned to the state after visiting China during the outbreak of the new virus have been asked to quarantine themselves at home this month as health officials try to stop the spread of the virus, the same day that officials announced two more cases in Northern California.

Those being asked to quarantine themselves returned to the U.S. on or after Feb. 2 and are being asked to monitor their health, stay home and limit interactions with others, the California Department of Public Health said in a statement.

The department said that number excludes those who visited China's Hubei province, where the disease known as COVID-19 originated. Americans who spent time there and in Hubei's provincial capital of Wuhan have been flown home on U.S.-chartered flights and quarantined on military bases.

Sacramento County reported its first case of novel coronavirus in a traveler who had gone to China, bringing the number of cases in the United States to 17. Rural Humboldt County reported on Thursday that it also had a case.

The Sacramento County traveler returned to the United States from China on Feb. 2, Sacramento County officials said, and after experiencing mild symptoms, the person consulted their physician and coordinated a test through Sacramento County Public Health and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Public health officials said the individual, who is now asymptomatic, took precautionary measures during travel and has self-quarantined since returning. The county health department continues to monitor the individual.

“Cases in the U.S., including this first case in Sacramento County, have primarily been travel-related,” said Dr. Peter Beilenson, Sacramento County Department of Health Services Director. “The risk of COVID-19 to the U.S. public continues to be low. Sacramento County health providers are continuing to be vigilant, monitoring for acute respiratory illness, and gathering recent travel information to detect any new COVID-19 cases.”

Another individual diagnosed in Humboldt County is doing well, said the health officer there, Dr. Teresa Frankovich, and has self-isolated at home along with a close contact who also had traveled to China. The second individual is being tested for the respiratory illness that has killed more than 2200 people in China. More than 76,700 cases of the illness have been confirmed worldwide, only 634 of which have been outside China.

The U.S. is funneling travelers from China to 11 airports, including San Francisco International Airport, to ensure they get medical screening and medical care. At least 34 people in the U.S. have tested positive for the virus, including 18 who returned home from a quarantined cruise ship in Japan, the Centers for Disease Control said during a conference call with reporters Friday.

Federal authorities at the San Francisco airport are informing the travelers who return from China that they should isolate themselves at home.

Nationwide, the numbers in home quarantine are constantly changing and hard to pin down. The CDC said it is not tracking how many people from each U.S. state who have returned from China have been asked to isolate themselves.

The state of New York, for instance, has received the names of hundreds of people who recently returned from mainland China. State and U.S. guidelines sort people into high-, medium- and low-risk groups and have advice for each group. But local health departments have discretion in how to carry out the quarantines.

Federal officials share passenger details with states, who pass that information on to local health agencies. All those returning are advised to follow CDC recommendations to prevent possible transmission, the state agency said.

There are 10 people in California who have tested positive for the virus in lab tests performed by the CDC, the California Department of Public Health said.

The Sacramento Bee contributed to this report.