A real estate office in Adelaide has closed temporarily after it emerged two people who tested positive for coronavirus attended one of its auctions.

The auction was held about a day after the couple arrived on a direct flight from Guangzhou in southern China.

The pair, aged 60, have since been admitted to the Royal Adelaide Hospital where they remain in a stable condition in isolation.

SA Health officials are now trying to contact other people on the same China Southern Airways flight that arrived on January 21.

Ray White Dulwich posted this sign in their window following an auction in late January

China has closed some of its borders amid the outbreak of the new strain of coronavirus (file image)

Ray White in the Adelaide suburb of Dulwich has also provided authorities with a list of people who attended the auction on January 22 and its office remain closed until Thursday.

Meanwhile, an Adelaide couple on a cruise through Asia say they have been 'rejected again' and are feeling unloved after the Holland America liner was denied entry to several scheduled ports due to the coronavirus threat.

Grandparents David Holst and his wife Judy are on Holland America's MS Westerdam, which entered Hong Kong on Saturday resulting in a planned stopover in Manila being cancelled when authorities denied the boat entry.

Mr Holst posted on Sunday on his Facebook page, 'It was greed and stupidity when Holland America sent our ship into Hong Kong yesterday given HK is on red alert, the highest level you can have around the virus and other cruise lines were cancelling HK stops as HK is the gateway to China'.

Ray White Dulwich has temporarily closed its doors and is to re-open on February 6

He said the crew 'did not even bother to offer face masks to passengers going ashore' so they disembarked using their own and they 'did not see any temperature screening for those 700-800 joining the cruise'.

He described sanitation prevention on the liner as 'ordinary' and said they were not amused as it was totally avoidable if Holland America had acted 'more responsibly'.

Mr Holst said planned stops at Hualien in Taiwan on Tuesday had now also been cancelled, but the liner was heading to Kaohsiung further south on Wednesday.

He said there were 'plenty of Aussies' on board, including others from Adelaide and criticised the cruise company for only really caring 'about dollars'.

Hong Kong has recorded 15 confirmed cases of coronavirus.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted Ray White for comment.

Two people attended an auction of this residence in the Adelaide suburb of Firle in late january who were later confirmed to have coronavirus

AUSTRALIANS WITH THE CORONAVIRUS NEW SOUTH WALES: 4 January 25 Three men aged 43, 53, and 35 who had recently travelled to China are confirmed to have contracted the disease.

Two flew in from Wuhan while the other arrived in Sydney from Shenzhen, south China.

They were treated in isolation at Westmead Hospital January 27 A 21-year-old woman is identified as the fourth person to test positive for the illness in NSW.

The woman, a student at UNSW, flew into Sydney International Airport on flight MU749 on January 23 and presented to the emergency department 24 hours later after developing flu-like symptoms. VICTORIA: 6 January 25 A Chinese national aged in his 50s becomes the first confirmed case of the coronavirus in Australia.

The man flew to Melbourne on China Southern flight CZ321 from Wuhan via Guangzhou on January 19.

He was quarantined at Monash Hospital in Clayton in Melbourne's east. January 29 A Victorian man in his 60s is diagnosed with the coronavirus.

He became unwell on January 23 - two days after returning from the Chinese city of Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak.

The man was confirmed as positive on January 29 and was subsequently seen by doctors at the Monash Medical Centre. January 30 A woman in her 40s is found to have coronavirus.

She was visiting from China and mostly spent time with her family.

She is being treated at Royal Melbourne Hospital. February 1 A woman in her 20s in Melbourne is found to have the virus February 22 Two passengers taken off the Diamond Princess cruise ship test positive QUEENSLAND: 8 January 29 Queensland confirms its first case after a 44-year-old Chinese national was diagnosed with the virus. He is being treated at Gold Coast University Hospital. January 30 A 42-year-old Chinese woman who was travelling in the same Wuhan tour group as the 44-year-old man tests positive. She is in Gold Coast University Hospital in stable condition. February 4 An eight-year-old boy has been diagnosed coronavirus. He is also from the tour group where the other Queensland cases came from February 5 The case was found in a 37-year-old man, who was a member of a group of nine Chinese tourists in quarantine on the Gold Coast February 6 A 37-year-old woman has been diagnosed with coronavirus from the same travel group that flew to Queensland from Melbourne on January 27 February 21

Two Queensland women, aged 54 and 55, tested positive for COVID-19 and will be flown to Brisbane for further treatment.

A 57-year-old woman from Queensland also tests positive for the virus SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 3 February 1 A Chinese couple in their 60s who arrived in Adelaide from Wuhan to visit relatives are confirmed to have coronavirus. A 24-year-old woman from South Australia has been transferred to Royal Adelaide Hospital WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 1 February 21 A 78-year-old man from Western Australia was transferred to Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital in Perth JAPAN: 15 As of February 15, 47 Australians are among 219 confirmed cases of the coronavirus contracted on board Diamond Princess cruise ship at Yokohama.

Two more Australians who were on board tested positive after they were evacuated to Darwin on February 22



