Secretary of State Mike Pompeo sounded the alarm on the disturbing and pervasive infiltration of destructive communist ideology in the United States by agents of the Chinese regime.

Pompeo made the remarks during a Feb. 8 speech at the National Governors Association winter meeting in Washington.

Pompeo warned state governors that agents of communist China are influencing U.S. foreign policy by infiltrating think-tanks, universities, the media, and the government.

Pompeo did not discuss this, but the left-wing Washington Post publishes communist propaganda masquerading as “news” that is paid for by the Russian and Chinese governments.

The Washington Post has done this for years. The paper never told its readers that these sections were paid propaganda, so they were fooled into believing that the pro-China stories were objective news. WaPo has since started labeling the sections amid backlash.

Incase you missed it, here is the paid Chinese propaganda section in the @washingtonpost pic.twitter.com/zDvARZtu3j — Daily Caller (@DailyCaller) July 26, 2018

Secretary Pompeo noted that the Chinese government actively monitors all state governors as well as local and national politicians to strengthen its influence on American values and policies.

“Competition with China is not just a federal issue. It’s happening in your states with consequences for our foreign policy. In fact, whether you are viewed by the CCP as friendly or hardline, know that it’s working you. Know that it’s working the team around you. Competition with China is happening inside of your state, and it affects our capacity to perform America’s vital national security functions. In fact, I would be surprised if most of you in the audience have not been lobbied by the Chinese Communist Party directly.”

Pompeo continued: “We can’t ignore China’s actions and strategic intentions. The Chinese government has been methodical in the way it’s analyzed our system. It’s assessed our vulnerabilities and it’s decided to exploit our freedoms, to gain an advantage over us at the federal level, the state level and the local level.”

Secretary of State Pompeo said “last year, a Chinese Government-backed think tank in Beijing produced a report that assessed all 50 of America’s governors on their attitudes towards China. Many of you are referenced by name in that report.”

Pompeo said while the United States should maintain positive relations with China through trade and other alliances, American politicians should not turn a blind eye to the infiltration of communist ideology into mainstream American values.

One look at the radical Left’s open embrace of socialism and communism by Democrats Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez confirms this point.

Democrat Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy, who grew up in socialist Vietnam, takes veiled shot at Ocasio-Cortez. “I am offended by this whole conversation about socialism. [Capitalism] is the system that built us the greatest nation in the world." https://t.co/w2tBd6nWc0 — Samantha Chang ♖ (@samantha_chang) April 4, 2019

Secretary Pompeo said:

“Chinese consulates in New York, in Illinois, in Texas, and two in California are very politically active at the state level, as is the embassy right here in Washington, D.C. Chinese Communist Party officials, too, are cultivating relationships with county school board members and local politicians – often through what are known as sister cities programs. Many of you are familiar with Confucius Institutes. Confucius Institutes purport to have the sole purpose of teaching Mandarin language skills and Chinese culture. A bipartisan Senate committee found last year in 2019 that the Chinese Communist Party controls nearly every aspect of the Confucius Institutes’ activities here in the United States. China’s propaganda campaign starts even earlier than college. China has targeted K through 12 schools through its “Confucius Classrooms,” the CCP’s program to influence kids at elementary, middle, and high schools around the world. Do you know that we have no ability to establish similar programs in China? I’m sure that doesn’t surprise you. As of 2017, there were 519 of these classrooms in the United States. Beijing knows that today’s kids are tomorrow’s leaders.”

Pompeo underscored that this need for vigilance against communism does not mean that Americans should be hostile to Chinese nationals or Chinese-Americans (remember that the Chinese government oppresses its own people).

However, he urged Americans to be alert that they don’t become unwitting pawns in the infestation of communism in this country.

‘Why isn’t this headline news?’ Details emerge about long-time Chinese spy who worked under Feinstein https://t.co/wgfHkHr7s6 pic.twitter.com/Zmh1sMTjSR — Conservative News (@BIZPACReview) August 3, 2018

“Make no mistake about it: We want talented, young Chinese students to come study in the United States of America,” Pompeo said. “These are wonderful young people. But they shouldn’t have to fear the long arm of Beijing.”

Mike Pompeo closed with an exhortation to welcome alliances but to remain ever-vigilant about safeguarding the values that made America great.

“Let’s all rise to the occasion and protect our security, our economy — indeed, all that we hold dear — all of those freedoms,” Pompeo said. “It’s what leaders must do. It’s what we do as Americans.”

Suspect arrested after van plows into pro-Trump voter registration tent in Florida