The Coronavirus may be getting closer to Maine, with two New Hampshire residents who recently traveled to Wuhan, China, being tested for the virus, after showing respiratory symptoms. If they're found to be infected, they will be isolated and treated. The CDC urges anyone who's traveled to China recently and is showing symptoms like fever, cough, and shortness of breath to seek medical help immediately.

People who ate at Joseph’s Market in Waterville between December 27th and January 9th could be at risk of infection from Hepatitis A. Maine CDC officials say an employee who didn’t realize they were infectious worked in food prep during that time. Anyone who thinks they may have been exposed is advised to get tested.

Bangor City Councilors voted 5 to 4 Monday night to keep the bus hub in Pickering Square. In a nod to those who wanted more green space in the square, the hub will be moved closer to Water Street. In addition, the council voted to build a warm waiting area and bathrooms to the terminal.

Parents are encouraged to schedule appointments for their children for the U-Maine Augusta Dental Hygiene Clinic. On Friday, February 21st, children who don't have a dentist can access everything from routine cleanings to fluoride treatments and education at UMA’s Bangor campus. Find more information on the Facebook Page for UMA Dental Health Clinics.

The Southwest Harbor Public Library is offering tax aid through the AARP Foundation Tax-Aid program. The service is free to taxpayers with low to moderate income and is offered in cooperation with the IRS. Anyone wanting more information or to make an appointment should contact the library.

An investment company has secured funding so they can re-open Saddleback ski resort. The Finance Authority of Maine will provide a total of three-point-five million dollars, that will be added to the funding that’s already been secured. The company says they plan to provide 205 jobs in the Rangeley area.

Mainers can begin making summer camping reservations for Sebago Lake State Park, beginning on Monday, February 3rd, and for all 12 state park campgrounds beginning on February 7th. Find more information on the website for Maine State campgrounds.