Lunar New Year events planned for Amherst on Saturday were abruptly postponed, amid concerns about the coronavirus spreading beyond China.

The Erie County Department of Health said there are no confirmed cases of the virus in the county. But the University at Buffalo Confucius Institute and the Chinese Club of Western New York exercised caution in calling off their long-planned events, just a day before they were scheduled to take place.

The two groups were prepared to stage a gala performance on Saturday afternoon at the UB Center for the Arts and then a Lunar New Year banquet in the evening at Congregation Shir Shalom in Amherst, to celebrate the arrival of the Year of the Rat.

"The organizers will attempt to reschedule both of these events later in the spring and will inform the community once they have more details, assuming that a suitable date and venue can be determined," according to a statement issued on Friday.

John Della Contrada, a UB spokesman, said the organizers postponed their events "out of an abundance of caution."

"Organizers did not express specific concerns," he said. The events were "postponed because there were general concerns from community members about attendees who may have traveled abroad recently."

A message on the Chinese Club of Western New York's website said the two organizing groups had held an "emergency meeting" to "discuss the impact of Wuhan's pneumonia epidemic on community Spring Festival activities." Wuhan City in China has been identified as the source of the coronavirus outbreak that has sickened hundreds, mostly in China. There are two confirmed cases in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. New York State Health Department officials are monitoring three people, but no cases in the state have been confirmed.

"All sectors of the community spent a lot of time, energy and effort in preparing for the Spring Festival party and dinner," the club's message said. "We know the hardships and efforts involved. Here, we would like to express our deep apologies to all the volunteers, actors and cooperating institutions! I also urge you to understand this helpless decision!"

The club did not cite a specific factor that triggered the decision to call off the events. Representatives of the two groups could not be reached to comment Saturday.

A 2018 story in The Buffalo News about the annual gala held at UB noted that the event's performers practice for months ahead of time.

UB's spring semester is set to begin Monday. The university created a webpage answering questions about the coronavirus.

On the website, UB recommends that if any students, faculty, staff or visiting scholars had a fever and cough and recently visited Wuhan or had possibly been exposed, to isolate themselves and contact UB Health Services.

"At this time, the university is not aware of any students, faculty or staff who have been exposed to the coronavirus," UB said on the website. "It is important for the university community to know that while the (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) considers this to be a serious public health concern, based on current information, the immediate health risk to the general American public is considered low at this time."

Erie County is working with the CDC and the state Department of Health to prepare for potential coronavirus cases, said Dr. Gale Burstein, the county's health commissioner in a statement released Saturday.

The county health department said it is "prepared to support local health care facilities and providers in identifying patients who have novel coronavirus symptoms and a travel history to affected areas in China, or close contact with a confirmed case or of a person under investigation for (coronavirus) while that person is ill."

A Toronto hospital, meanwhile, confirmed the first case of the deadly virus in Canada, the Associated Press is reporting.

The patient is a man in his 50s who recently flew into Toronto on Jan. 23 from China, the news agency reported.