The rapid spread of the deadly novel coronavirus, with one case recently reported in Boston, has prompted preparations by local agencies.

Town boards of health would take their cues from the national Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Massachusetts Department of Public Health.

“In the unlikely event of a local case, multiple town agencies would work closely together with our state and federal partners to determine the best course of action," said Stoughton Board of Health Chairman Andy Tibbs. "Person to person spread of the virus remains rare at this moment in time.”

However, Tibbs said, state public health officials have issued general information and specific guidelines to clinicians who may see possible cases.

Holbrook Health Agent Abbey Myers said an update and interim guidance was sent out to healthcare providers, infection preventionists, hospitals, and local boards of health. She has not received many inquiries about the virus from residents.

A patient suspected of the carrying the virus would be sent to hospital for evaluation, and quarantined, if necessary, until test results came back, she said.

A town would receive notification of a resident being tested for the virus by national and state officials.

“If any cases have been discovered in Massachusetts or in Randolph," said Randolph Public Health Director Gerard Cody, "the Randolph Health Department would be notified immediately through the Massachusetts Virtual Epidemiology Network and the Homeland Health Alert Network.”

Brockton-area schools and colleges have cancelled visits from Chinese students. Easton Middle School cancelled its Feb. 3 host visit with Chinese students.

Stonehill College spokesman Martin McGovern said that while the school doesn’t have any students currently studying in China, officials have been in touch with several students attending on visas.

The recent outbreak of the novel coronavirus 2019-nCoV originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China, and was first identified by Chinese authorities in mid-December 2019, according to the International Association of Fire Fighters. As of early this week, the outbreak has resulted in 40,000 confirmed human infections and 910 reported deaths. It has spread to several countries – including the United States – and cases of infection are expected to rise.



Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, some of which cause illness in people and others that circulate among animals, including camels, cats and bats. Rarely, animal coronaviruses can evolve and infect people and then spread between people, as seen with Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). However, 2019-nCoV has clearly progressed to human-to-human transmission.



Individuals who have traveled to Wuhan City, China, in the last 14 days before symptoms or have had close contact with a person who has tested positive for or is being observed for symptoms of 2019-nCoV should be screened for Coronavirus.

People can protect themselves from both the coronavirus and flu season by washing their hands before eating, covering their cough or sneezing into facial tissue, avoid touching their eyes, nose, and mouth without washing their hands first, avoiding close contact with sick patients, and staying home if they themselves are sick.

Information from USA Today, along with contributions from Wicked Local staff writer Donna Whitehead and Enterprise staff writer Corlyn Vorhees, contributed to this article.