Happy Tuesday and welcome back to On The Money, where we hope you didn't wait up for the (partial) results from the Iowa Caucuses. I'm Sylvan Lane, and here's your nightly guide to everything affecting your bills, bank account and bottom line.

See something I missed? Let me know at slane@thehill.com or tweet me @SylvanLane. And if you like your newsletter, you can subscribe to it here: http://bit.ly/1NxxW2N.

Write us with tips, suggestions and news: slane@thehill.com, njagoda@thehill.com and nelis@thehill.com. Follow us on Twitter: @SylvanLane, @NJagoda and @NivElis.

ADVERTISEMENT

THE BIG DEAL--Democrats urge emergency funding for coronavirus outbreak: House Democrats on Tuesday urged Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar to request a package of emergency supplemental funding to deal with the coronavirus outbreak.

House Appropriations Chairwoman Nita Lowey Nita Sue LoweyHouse passes bill to expand TSA worker protections House passes .3 billion measure to fight coronavirus Lawmakers clinch deal for .3 billion to combat coronavirus MORE (D-N.Y.) and Labor, Health and Human Services subcommittee Chairwoman Rosa DeLauro Rosa Luisa DeLauroOvernight Health Care: Pence says 21 people on cruise ship tested positive for coronavirus | NY begs for more testing kits | Trump signs .3B emergency funding package | Experts say mortality rate likely to drop House Democrats press Trump administration on coronavirus testing affordability Democrats introduce bill to guarantee paid sick leave in response to coronavirus MORE (D-Conn.) told Azar in a letter that the funding is needed to stage "an aggressive and comprehensive government-wide response to the 2019 novel Coronavirus, both domestically and internationally."

Lowey and DeLauro asked the administration to submit the request by Feb. 10.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said it is already depleting the $105 million rapid response fund, and on Sunday Azar notified Congress that the department was looking at transferring $136 million from other programs. Azar can only transfer the funds 15 days after notifying Congress, on Monday, February 17.

Democrats are seeking additional funding in part to ensure that the administration does not transfer funds from priority programs important to Democrats, such as National Institutes of Health or Head Start programs.

ON TAP TOMORROW

ADVERTISEMENT

LEADING THE DAY

Kudlow predicts coronavirus will have 'minimal impact' on economy: White House chief economic adviser Larry Kudlow Lawrence (Larry) Alan KudlowMORE on Tuesday said that he thinks the novel coronavirus will have a minimal impact on the U.S. economy.

"Our estimates are minimal impact. The world is not in Wuhan province," Kudlow said in an interview with Fox Business Network. He estimated the outbreak could cost the economy 0.2 percent in the first quarter and potentially another 0.2 percent later on.

China's latest figures on the virus estimated that 20,000 people had been infected, and 425 people had died from it.

But while Kudlow predicted that the virus would not be "catastrophic" for the U.S. economy, he said it could dampen a promised rise in exports to China resulting from last month's "Phase One" trade deal.

"It is true the trade deal, the phase one trade deal, the export boom from that trade deal will take longer because of the Chinese virus," he said.

Under the terms of the deal, China had promised to increase purchases from the U.S. by $200 billion, but it also said it would do so according to market conditions.

Trade experts raised doubts that China would be able to hit that mark even before the outbreak led to quarantines, flight cancellations and some supply chain disruptions.

Sectors such as autos and auto parts might be hit harder than pharmaceuticals or chipmakers due to supply chain disruptions, Kudlow added.

Top Democrat demands Barr recuse himself from case against Turkish bank: Sen. Ron Wyden Ronald (Ron) Lee WydenOvernight Energy: Watchdog blasts planning behind BLM relocation | Progress on Senate energy bill | Dems eye two measures for inclusion ahead of vote Democrats focus on two amendments for Senate energy bill Vulnerable Republicans dodge questions on support for ObamaCare lawsuit MORE (D-Ore.) is calling on Attorney General William Barr William Pelham BarrRand Paul looms as wild card in surveillance fight Surveillance deal elusive as deadline looms Vulnerable Republicans dodge questions on support for ObamaCare lawsuit MORE to recuse himself from a federal case against a Turkish state-owned bank over concerns President Trump Donald John TrumpBiden racks up union endorsements ahead of crucial primaries CPAC attendee tests positive for coronavirus Biden campaign unveils biggest ad purchase of 2020 cycle MORE reportedly interfered in the investigation on behalf of Turkey's president.

Turkey's Halkbank is accused of transferring billions of dollars to Iran in violation of U.S. sanctions.

The request by Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, was detailed in a four-page letter Monday and prompted by reports that Barr raised concerns with former national security adviser John Bolton John BoltonThe Hill's Morning Report - Presented by the APTA - A huge night for Joe Biden Dems unlikely to subpoena Bolton Bolton book release delayed due to government review MORE that Trump was trying to grant personal favors for leaders in Turkey and China.

The alleged conversation between Barr and Bolton was first reported last month by The New York Times, which cited an unpublished book manuscript by Bolton. The Hill's Laura Kelly explains the case here.

GOOD TO KNOW

ODDS AND ENDS