UNTV News • January 10, 2020 • 395

Bangkok – Thai police were looking Friday for a man who killed three people, among them a young child, during a robbery in a central province in the country.



Authorities said the man killed the victims – including a two-year-old child – and wounded another four Thursday night as he robbed the Aurora gold shop inside Robinson shopping center in Lopburi province, Thailand.



“I would say that this man is violent and cruel. He only wanted to rob but he killed a lot of people. And those he killed did not even try to fight him,” Deputy National Police Chief Gen. Wirachai Songmetta said in a Friday press conference.



He added that he believed the assailant had been at the store prior to the attack and that his team would seek help from people at the shopping center to identify him.



“We would like to ask for collaboration from the public, especially people from nearby stores, please check whether you have seen someone similar to this guy before,” Wirachai said.



Police said the man, who was wielding a gun with a silencer, first shot at a security guard before proceeding with his rampage.



Security camera footage shows how a man wearing a balaclava shoots at customers and staff while approaching the counter. He then gets on the counter and proceeds to walk up and down, before rummaging through valuables and making off with a handful of jewelry.



A separate video shows how a child walking by falls to the ground after sustaining a wound to the head before his mother takes him away to find cover. Authorities said the boy died at the hospital.



“I never thought this would happen to us, it all occurred so fast, it’s left us heartbroken,” the boy’s mother wrote on Facebook under her username, I’wi Wilaiwan Triton.



Authorities said the man fled on a red-and-white Yamaha Fino motorbike without a license plate and that they had deployed police commandos to assist the hunt.



“The information we have is useful and we are now analyzing it and will later synchronize it with other information. It is all useful but we cannot reveal anything at the moment,” Wirachai said, adding that police believed the man to be about 166 centimeters (5 feet, 4 inches) tall and “very good at using weapons.”



Out of the more than 10 million firearms in Thailand, only 6 million are legally registered, according to Australian monitoring organization GunPolicy.org. EFE-EPA



lds/dl