A Texas A&M student who had been suspected of possibly carrying the new strain of coronavirus tested negative for the illness, health officials and the school announced Sunday.

The Brazos County Health District had said Thursday that it was investigating whether the student, who was identified as a male in his 20s, had the virus.

The student had recently traveled from Wuhan, China, where the strain of coronavirus was first detected. Officials said he had mild symptoms associated with the virus and was already improving by the time he was admitted to the emergency room.

The negative results came back Sunday, officials said.

“We are very pleased with this news and grateful to those community caregivers involved for their expertise, proactive action and compassion demonstrated in treating our student,” Dr. Martha Dannenbaum, director of A&M’s Student Health Services, said in a written statement. “We wish to thank the Brazos County Health District, which offered guidance and transparency throughout this case.”

The Texas Department of State Health Services said four people in the state had been tested for the illness as of Friday, and one of those had tested negative at the time.

A Baylor University student who recently traveled to China is also being tested for the virus, the university said Friday.

Nearly 2,000 cases of the new coronavirus have been confirmed since last month, according to The Associated Press.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have confirmed five cases in the United States as of Sunday, with patients in Washington, Illinois, Arizona and California. Each patient had traveled from Wuhan recently, according to the CDC.

Cornaviruses are a large family of viruses that can cause a range of respiratory illnesses. The new coronavirus had not previously been seen in humans. Some coronavirus strains, such as Middle East respiratory illness, or MERS, and severe acute respiratory illness, or SARS, can originate in animals and later infect people.

The new strain may have originated from animals, as many of the first patients infected in China reported contact with animal and seafood markets, the CDC said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.