MANILA, Feb 10, INQUIRER/ANN — The Philippines on Sunday evacuated 30 of its citizens from Wuhan city in China’s Hubei province, the epicenter of a new coronavirus outbreak that has killed more than 900 people and infected about 40,000 in the mainland and spread to 26 other countries.

A chartered Royal Air flight arranged by the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) and the Department of Health (DOH) flew 29 adults and an infant to Clark International Airport in Pampanga province, where they were transferred into buses that brought them to the nearby Athletes’ Village in New Clark City in Tarlac province for health monitoring over the next two weeks.



More than 50 Filipinos in Wuhan had asked to be taken home after China locked down the city and the rest of Hubei as cases piled up. But 15 were unable to leave because of documentation problems. The others “weighed what was happening, ” including the addition of more hospital beds, in Wuhan, the DFA said.

Some of those who had backed out reportedly decided against going because they did not like being put in quarantine. Others reportedly decided to stay because they did not want to lose their jobs in China.

The DFA could not say whether there would be another evacuation.

“We still have to look at the demand. People have started to hunker down with the diminishing numbers, improving facilities and general improvement of the situation in Wuhan and Hubei, ” the DFA said.

In the 24 hours ending at midnight Saturday, 2,656 new virus cases were reported in China, down by 20 percent from the 3,399 cases reported in the previous 24-hour period, which suggested the epidemic was slowing down.

Experts, however, said the total would rise further once Chinese laboratories tested a backlog of thousands of samples from possible cases.

Around 150 Filipinos live in Wuhan and 150 others elsewhere in Hubei, the DFA said.

All the 30 Filipinos who returned on Sunday morning showed no symptoms of the pneumonia-like disease, but they and the 10 government employees who assisted them, the flight crew and the service vehicle drivers would be isolated and observed for 14 days—the incubation period of the new coronavirus.

The government personnel who assisted in the repatriation were two representatives from the Philippine Consulate in Shanghai, three from the DFA Office of the Undersecretary for Migrant Workers’ Affairs, and five medical workers from the DOH.