coronavirus

passengers

Ramchandra Hankare

Sadhana Tayde

State guidelines on identifi cation, treating ofissued, PMC to soon follow suitTwo persons, both male, with recent travel history to China have been admitted to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital on Monday after they complained of cold, cough and mild fever — basic symptoms of coronavirus. While sample of one patient, who had been admitted in the morning, was sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) for tests, the other’s will be sent on Tuesday, as he got admitted around 7 pm on Monday.Incidentally, the state government on Monday has come up with comprehensive guidelines to manage, treat and combat the coronavirus. In Pune, PMC officials said both patients were admitted in the isolation ward of Naidu hospital.On January 10, the 51-yearold pharmaceuticals sales executive from the city had landed in Mumbai from Shanghai in China after spending seven days there, but without any symptom. Later, he was in Abu Dhabi between January 21and 23. After developing some symptoms, he came to Naidu hospital on Monday morning. The other patient, a 30-year-old executive of an automobile company, travelled to Wuhan border and Zhejiang province in China between January 5 and 13. He also travelled to the city from Shanghai via Mumbai but again without any symptom of coronavirus. However, he later complained of cold, cough, fever and headache, and was admitted to Naidu on Monday evening.While both thereturned from China, there was allegedly no thermal screening at Mumbai airport — a cause of concern for health officials. The airport began screening only on January 18. At present, three people of Pimpri-Chinchwad without any symptom but travel history to China are under observation.PMC health chief Drconfirmed Monday’s development. “While sample of one patient was sent to NIV, the other will be sent on Tuesday. We have kept them under observation in the isolation ward. People have to be careful and approach us if they have a recent travel history to China and symptoms. The dos and don’ts will be released in a couple of days.”On the other hand, a high-level meeting of technical committee of communicable diseases, headed by public health expert Dr Subhash Salunkhe, was held in Mumbai. The meeting was chaired by public health department principal secretary Dr Pradeep Kumar Vyas. Former public health minister Dr Deepak Sawant, health services director Dr Archana Patil, Dr, NIV experts, state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awte and PMC’s Hankare were also present in the meeting.After the meeting, Patil told Mirror that not a single case of coronavirus has been confirmed in the state and the samples sent to NIV have found to be negative till now. “The health department is keeping an eye on the travel history and any patient who has a travel history of Wuhan and even mild symptoms will be admitted immediately and isolated. The new guidelines will be shared with all private practitioners and hospitals. Passengers who had travelled to China with any symptom should come forward and inform us. Citizens can call on toll-free number 104 if they need any assistance or help regarding coronavirus.”According to the health department, 3,756 fliers were screened at Mumbai airport for suspected novel coronavirus between January 18 and 26. The department has further intensified their screening by including passengers who had travelled to China before January 18, too.The experts discussed and came up with new guidelines and protocols, which are in addition to the guidelines of World Health Organisation (WHO), after studying minute details in the Indian context. A review of the guidelines and condition was taken by the Union health ministry through videoconferencing.The experts have drafted guidelines for screening, admission, isolation and treatment. Salient features of the guidelines are — patients with travel history to Wuhan and even with mild symptoms of coronavirus to be admitted immediately and kept isolated, samples to be sent only of admitted patients, medication to be given symptomatically, negative samples for suspected coronavirus to be sent again after four days, patients to be screened twice after treatment for coronavirus before discharge, and the treating team’s biomedical waste (mask, gloves, gown, etc.) to be sent separately for insulation.