Texas universities are clamping down on travel to China, concerned about the mysterious new coronavirus that’s now infected more people in that country than SARS did.

The University of Houston System, Rice, Baylor College of Medicine, UTHealth, the University of Texas and Texas A&M have instituted temporary policies to stop all but the most essential travel to China. The institutions cite advice from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

“While the UH System places great value in our work and on our many partnerships in China, including exchange programs, and intends to continue these initiatives, our highest priority is the health and well-being of our UH System community,” Paula Myrick Short, senior vice chancellor for academic affairs, wrote faculty, students and staff in an email Tuesday. “At this time, the health risks associated with the uncertainty about where in China and how rapidly the virus is spreading outweigh our institutions’ academic and research endeavors and necessitate travel restrictions.”

The UH policy prohibits all travel to Wuhan, the Hubei province where the outbreak originated, and non-essential travel to China outside Hubei.

The strongest policy was adopted Wednesday by Rice University, a suspension of all school-sponsored travel to China by faculty, students and staff. The suspension marked a stricter stance than Tuesday, when the school only advised against non-essential travel to China, following the State Department’s lead.

Both UT and Texas A&M have suspended all university-sponsored travel to China for undergraduate students but are allowing “essential travel” by faculty, staff and graduate researchers. Requests must be approved after review. Texas A&M’s policy urges people to “give serious evaluation” before requesting travel to China.

Baylor and the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston instituted similar policies.

On HoustonChronicle.com: Why Houston is uniquely situated to be better prepared for the coronavirus threat

Five coronavirus cases have been confirmed in the U.S. — none in Texas; all were infected in Wuhan but didn’t develop symptoms until they returned to the U.S. A student at Texas A&M and a student at Baylor University in Waco were suspected to have the virus but turned out not to have it.

The number of confirmed cases in China is now 5,974, more than the 5,327 diagnosed there with Severe Acute Respiratory System in 2002-2003. China’s death toll, 132, is still lower than that from SARS. Nearly 350 died in that outbreak.

The virus has been confirmed in 18 countries besides China. In most, there have been only a handful of cases.

The CDC earlier this week added George Bush Intercontinental Airport and 14 other U.S. airports to the five previously selected to screen travelers from China. A spokesman said Wednesday that airport officials are waiting for CDC guidance before beginning such screenings.

Five flights from China arrive in Houston weekly, none from Wuhan, said the spokesman. In all, those flights carry about 2,000 passengers.

todd.ackerman@chron.com

The Associated Press contributed to this story.