14 people have now been confirmed to have the Wuhan novel coronavirus in Malaysia, although only 2 of the patients are Malaysian—additionally, both Malaysian patients are siblings. However, fears over the outbreak spreading has been prevalent, with certain parties like the U.S., AirAsia, and Malindo Air restricting travel to certain parts of China.

The paranoia is palpable, with people wary of travelling. Air travel, in particular, has been subject to scrutiny given the close quarters you spend with other passengers—usually for extended periods of time. Malaysia Airlines recently shared information on their High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters and how it helps to contain the outbreak, and AirAsia has now followed suit.

In a post on their Facebook page, the low-cost airline shared that the its aircraft goes through a regular disinfection procedure to “control or kill” infectious agents, and to “minimise the risk of spreading diseases”. This process includes “cleaning, sanitising and disinfecting products” that are approved by the Public Health Authority and aircraft manufacturer.

The safety of our guests is our top priority. Our aircraft goes through regular disinfection procedure to control or… Posted by AirAsia on Khamis, 6 Februari 2020

AirAsia says that the procedures will control or kill the infectious agents on a “human or animal body”, a surface, or in baggage, cargo, containers, conveyances, and goods. This is done by chemical and physical agents, and the entire process is designed based on the Airbus Aircraft Maintenance Manual—meanwhile, the 2-hour task is carried out by a team of 5 to 6 people. According to the post, disinfectants used are Cee Bee A-18 S and Noviruclean and Calla 1452.

Have a look at the entire process below:

AirAsia’s aircraft undergo this process at every night stop, and offers a modicum of comfort to those that are due to travel with them soon. Regardless, it’s always advisable to keep good habits—wash your hands regularly, and if you’re feeling symptoms of a flue, be sure to wear a face mask.

[ SOURCE ]