People walk past the closed Hankou Railway Station after the city was locked down following the outbreak of a new coronavirus in Wuhan, Hubei province, China January 23, 2020. (Photo : China Daily via REUTERS)

What started as a mystery virus in China has now killed at least 15 people and infected others around the world.

The first case of Wuhan coronavirus (2019-nCoV) was confirmed Tuesday in Washington state -- a person in his 30s who is under observation -- stoking fears of a virulent disease in the country.

So what are officers doing in the United States, and how can you minimize your chance?

What airports are doing

Before Wuhan had its final outbound flight, passengers from the Chinese city to the United States -- either on direct or indirect flights -- were only allowed to land at one of the five US airports.

John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, Los Angeles International Airport, and San Francisco International Airport already checked those incoming passengers for signs and symptoms - includes fever, cough, and trouble breathing.

Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport and Chicago O'Hare International Airport also screened its passengers.

Officials at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport set up signs at the international arrivals area, instructing passengers from Wuhan to observe for signs of the virus.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention began showing the register English and Chinese on January 14, an airport spokesman said.

But those airport screenings may not catch every person infected quickly. That's because the incubation time could last a week -- meaning it can take a week after you have infected before showing any signs.

What scientists are doing

Scientists across the United States are trying to create a vaccine for the brand new virus. However, it would take months before medical trials start and more than a year until a vaccine might genuinely emerge as accessible.

Scientists in New York, Texas, and China are also making a coronavirus vaccine, Baylor College of Medicine vaccine scientist Dr. Peter Hotez told CNN.

Hotez noted that coronavirus infections are critical and one of the newest and is among the most significant global health threats.

What you could do yourself

The World Health Organization urged the public to avoid contact with every person displaying signs of respiratory illness - such as coughing and sneezing.

Additional symptoms of this coronavirus include fever and shortness of breath. Severe cases can result in pneumonia, kidney failure, or even death.

Scientists believe this coronavirus started in animals and then spread to humans. Hence, health officers recommend cooking meat and eggs thoroughly.

The World Health Organization said anyone with underlying medical conditions should avoid going to live animal markets and eating uncooked meats altogether since those humans are "more vulnerable to the cruel disease."

Dr. John Wiesman, Washington state's health secretary, said the public should do what they need to do every cold and flu season.

What could appear next

The WHO had an emergency meeting Wednesday to determine whether or not to declare 2019-to a "public health emergency of international concern."

WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he takes the public health emergency of international concern extraordinarily seriously.

He added that the agency is prepared to take appropriate consideration of all the evidence since the phenomenon is an evolving and complicated situation.

WHO officials are anticipated to meet once more Thursday to tackle the issue.