BOSTON (WBZ NewsRadio) — The chair of Harvard University's Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology has been charged with lying about money he accepted from the Chinese government, the U.S. Attorney for Massachusetts Andrew Lelling's office announced Tuesday. In additional unrelated cases, two Chinese nationals working in the United States were indicted, accused of passing U.S. research to the Chinese government—with one caught allegedly attempting to smuggle biological research on a flight to China, and the other accused of spying for the Chinese People's Liberation Army.

Professor Charged Harvard's Dr. Charles Lieber, 60, is charged with willfully making materially false, fictitious, and fraudulent statements to the Department of Defense and National Institutes of Health regarding his involvement in China's "Thousand Talents Plan" and with Wuhan University of Technology. Read The Full Complaint Affidavit Against Dr. Lieber Lieber appeared in federal court in Boston Tuesday afternoon, where he was ordered held until a bail hearing Thursday. Federal prosecutors asked he be held as investigators looked into new information. In an affidavit, the FBI claims Lieber was paid a salary of $50,000 per month and an additional $150,000 per year from his "Thousand Talents" contract, and was awarded $1.5 million by the Chinese government to establish a research lab at the university in Wuhan. The money was given to Lieber to work, research, and recruit for China. But Lieber also has contracts with the United States government that require disclosure of foreign research collaboration and payments from foreign governments. According to the affidavit, he has received a total of $8 million in Department of Defense grants since 2009, and a total of over $10 million in National Institutes of Health-funded grants since 2008. When interviewed by DoD officials in 2018, Lieber allegedly denied being part of China's Thousand Talents Plan; then, when NIH officials investigated Lieber's Chinese ties later that year, the FBI alleges Lieber "caused Harvard to make materially false and misleading statements about his connection to WUT and the Thousand Talents Plan" in a written statement to the NIH.

U.S. Attorney Andrew Lelling. (Karyn Regal/WBZ NewsRadio)