By ZHOU JIN | CHINA DAILY/XINHUA | Updated: 2020-01-10 07:23

State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Egypt's Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry attend a joint news conference in Cairo, Egypt, on Wednesday. LI BINIAN/XINHUA

The escalating tension in the Middle East is a consequence of unilateralism, military intervention and disregard for international justice and fairness, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Wednesday.

The frequently emerging issues in the region cannot only be blamed on the development of regional conflicts, Wang told a joint news conference with Egypt's Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry in Cairo.

China calls for respecting the principles of the United Nations Charter and sticking to political solutions, Wang said.

He said that China has been and will always be willing to promote peace, stability and the development of the Middle East.

Citing the Libya crisis as an example, Wang said that external military intervention and the use of weapons will only aggravate confrontation and intensify tensions in the country, which will make it harder to solve the problems.

The spillover effects of the crisis are on the rise, and terrorist forces, such as the so-called Islamic State group, are penetrating the country, an issue that the international community should be highly alert to, he said.

The urgent task is to push for a cease-fire among warring parties and return to the negotiating table, he said, urging the related parties to respect and listen to the opinions of their neighbors and seek a solution that accommodates the concerns of all.

The international community should also make joint efforts to fight terrorism and prevent the growth of extremist and terrorist forces in Libya, he said.

Wang added that China will continue to speak out for justice in relation to the Palestine issue.

After more than 70 years, the issue remains unresolved, inflicting tremendous pain on the people of Palestine, Wang said.

The issue must not be deferred indefinitely or become the victim of any deal, he said.

China will firmly support the Arab Peace Initiative, the two-state solution, and the establishment of an independent State of Palestine that enjoys full sovereignty on the basis of the 1967 borders with East Jerusalem as its capital, Wang added.

Egypt is the first stop of Wang's seven-day African tour, which will also take him to Djibouti, Eritrea, Burundi and Zimbabwe. During his stay in Cairo, he and Shoukry hosted a strategic dialogue between the two foreign ministries.

Wang also met Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi and Egyptian Prime Minister Mostafa Madbouly on Wednesday.

Xinhua contributed to this story.