© Provided by WCVB Boston Michael Tow

A Massachusetts man is speaking out after he helped produce a comedy video that is meant to call out anti-Asian sentiments amid the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak.

Needham actor Michael Tow and editor Teja Arboleda are the duo behind "Coughing While Asian," which puts a satirical spin on the discrimination some Asian-Americans are starting to experience due to fears of the novel coronavirus that started in China.

"Once there was a case of the coronavirus coming to the U.S., we knew the fear was going to get overblown," Tow said. "Teja and I wanted to spin this issue on its head and kind of make it ridiculous, in the sense to show how people are reacting. We have thousands of comments, like, 'This has happened to me.'"

Tow said the goal of the video is to use humor to help people put some of their fears into perspective and to help those who feel like they are being targeted.

"We wanted to show how ridiculous and overblown the fear is," he said. "Yes, it's dangerous virus, but the flu has killed exponentially more people."

There is one confirmed case of the Wuhan coronavirus in Massachusetts, while there have been hundreds of confirmed influenza cases in the city of Boston alone.

The one coronavirus patient does reside in Boston, which has spurred more calls to Boston Emergency Medical Services.

James Hooley, chief of department at Boston EMS, said residents exhibiting signs of the coronavirus, such as a cough or runny nose, are worried that they have the illness.

According to Hooley, emergency medical technicians in the city are prepared with the tools needed for a response to any potential coronavirus cases.

"We would be placing a mask on the person to limit what they're expelling and put a mask on ourselves to protect ourselves," Hooley said.

The Boston Public Health Commission will be hosting a public meeting regarding the Wuhan coronavirus in the cafeteria of the Josiah Quincy Elementary School, which is located at 885 Washington St., at 6:30 p.m. Friday.

TOP STORIES FROM WCVB:

Red Sox agree to trade Mookie Betts, David Price to Dodgers, ESPN reports

Poll: Sanders could win NH, but voters think someone else is more likely to defeat Trump

Three officers stabbed after responding to domestic-related incident

Rep. Ayanna Pressley boycotting President Trump's State of Union

Snow, sleet to impact commutes Thursday, Friday

Police warn residents after illegal animal trap found

READ THE FULL STORY:Local actor using humor to raise awareness of coronavirus discrimination

CHECK OUT WCVB:Get the latest Boston news, weather and sports online, anytime. Stay in the know with Boston’s news leader – WCVB.