The Linden-based Bosai Minerals Group (Guyana) has promised to complete repair works on its tailings pond today and, will be hoping that the standard of work is good enough to persuade the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to grant the company permission to recommence the discharge of water into the pond.

On 10th January 2020, EPA Director General, Vincent Adams, ordered the Chinese company to halt the discharge of water into the tailings pond after a breach of the pond led to the flooding of the yards of six residents of the Linden community of Noitgedacht. Residents suffered financial losses in varying degrees, but have since been reimbursed in full by Bosai, which also cleaned up the discharge, although residue of the discharge was still visible the day following the spill.

Bosai was fined $1 million for the breach, which Adams had said was related to another environmental incident at the same operation in November, for which the bauxite company was also fined $1 million.

The cease order meant that while Bosai could process bauxite in its kiln, no washing could take place. As washing is essential to the completion of the production process, the company’s operation was virtually at a standstill, as it could only stockpile the bauxite put through the kiln. Unwashed bauxite cannot be shipped, sold and or further processed.

In an interview with Stabroek News, Adams explained that during a meeting this week, Bosai promised that the repairs, and refashioning of the tailings pond will be completed today. He further said that an officer from the EPA will visit, and inspect the works done on the pond once the EPA is contacted by Bosai with the final word that the pond has been completed. Adams will not be visiting the pond himself, as he did in the aftermath of the spill. Adams, explaining how the spill took place, had said that when bauxite is washed, the wastewater goes into a tailings pond for the sediments to settle after which it is discharged into the Kara Kara creek, which flows into the Demerara River. He noted that works were in progress to extend the tailings pond so as to increase settlement time, and ensure that the turbidity of the water discharged into the creek was lower. This would address the issue which led to the fine late last November. Work was also underway to shore up the surrounding dyke so that it would not overtop during heavy rains.

During these works, Adams explained, a pipe via which the wastewater is discharged “failed”, causing the wastewater to seep into the dyke, damaging a section. It then flowed downhill of Bosai’s operation, to Noitgedacht

Adams had criticised the measures being implemented as not being properly thought out, and shared that the EPA is working with Bosai to craft a permanent solution to the issue.

During a meeting which took place in the aftermath of the EPA’s visit, Adams said Bosai had promised to complete repair works, according to a new design, within 7 days. This time was critical as Bosai had indicated that it only had seven days’ worth of stockpiling space, since it could not wash bauxite.

Adams made it clear during a meeting with Bosai officials that despite their stockpile capacity, permission will not be granted for Bosai to recommence the discharge of water into its tailings pond until the EPA is satisfied that the solution it has implemented is sound.