The Union Home Minister was addressing a rally in support of the CAA. “Today I have come to Lucknow to say it aloud that whoever wants to protest, can protest, but the CAA won't be taken back,” he said. His comment came as a sit-in by women at the Hussainabad Clock Tower hit the fifth day. | Analysis: Mistimed comments of Sibal and Khurshid weaken Congress position on citizenship law | Disclosure of information in National Population Register voluntary: MoS Home Kishan Reddy

The World Health Organisation called a meeting for January 22 to consider declaring a global health emergency. China's National Health Commission will also give an update at a press briefing at 10 a.m. (7.30 a.m. IST) on January 22. Aound the world, airports tightened screening of travellers from China as officials confirmed the coronavirus strain is contagious between humans.

AAP leaders claimed that 35 candidates with incomplete forms delayed Mr. Kejriwal from filing his papers.

The disgruntled JD(U) leader sought “ideological clarity” from party chief and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over extending alliance with the BJP in Delhi despite having expressed apprehensions “in private” about the BJP-RSS leading the nation into a “dangerous space”.

Additional Sessions Judge S. R. Navandar said Bhave could not be granted bail given his conviction in the 2008 Thane bomb blasts case and in view of his alleged role in Dabholkar’s murder.

“The magazine has reported that Ramar and Sita were paraded naked and garlanded with slippers in Periyar’s rally in 1971 in Salem. I have not said something that did not happen. I have not imagined it. The one who protested there in Salem....Lakshmana...has confirmed it. So, I will not apologise or express regret,” said Rajinikanth, adding that he has only expressed what has been reported in magazines. He further said that Periyar's rally must be forgotten, not denied.

Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan expressed “deep grief” over the incident.

He says bilateral disputes should be dealt with dialogue by the majority governments of both countries.

Ms. Thunberg brushed aside Mr. Trump’s announcement that the U.S. would join the economic forum’s initiative to plant 1 trillion trees across the globe to help capture carbon dioxide from Earth’s atmosphere.

Speaking in Davos at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2020, the Commerce and Industry Minister also called for greater cooperation among various nations to realise the huge growth prospects in the Indian Ocean region and also for tackling the important issue of climate change.

In their tournament-opener on January 19, India beat Sri Lanka by 90 runs.