(Natural News) Not long before Chinese coronavirus started making global headlines, The Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, in partnership with the World Economic Forum and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, held a high-level pandemic exercise called “Event 201” that seems to have been a predictive blueprint for what’s now transpiring with the coronavirus outbreak.

On October 18, 2019, representatives from each of the aforementioned groups descended on New York City to discuss how they would respond to “a severe pandemic” much like the one we’re now being told is spreading across China and into the West.

The exercise “illustrated areas where public / private partnerships will be necessary during the response to a severe pandemic in order to diminish large-scale economic and societal consequences,” an official announcement from Event 201 reads.

“In recent years, the world has seen a growing number of epidemic events, amounting to approximately 200 events annually,” the announcement goes on to explain. “These events are increasing, and they are disruptive to health, economies, and society.”

According to the event’s organizers, a pandemic like the one we could be seeing form right now before our very eyes requires “cooperation” among governments, industries, and “key international institutions” – the latter presumably referring to organizations like the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

Is coronavirus yet another ploy to thin the “herd” and sell more vaccines?

The timing of Event 201 is nothing short of suspicious in light of the fact that coronavirus is all the media is talking about right now. It’s even eclipsing President Trump’s impeachment proceedings in the Senate, with news about entire cities in China that are home to tens of millions of people being put under mandatory quarantine.

We’re also seeing headlines about coronavirus popping up in major U.S. cities like Seattle, Houston and Chicago, which is starting to generate panic here in our own country about how far this thing will go before either fizzling out – a best-case scenario – or spreading like wildfire.

As Mike Adams, the Health Ranger, is now warning, the rapid adaptation or mutation of coronavirus suggests that this might be another weaponized viral strain that was intentionally unleashed for eugenics purposes.

Mainstream reporting is admitting that coronavirus is constantly changing like some kind of self-replicating bioweapon, which is all too convenient considering that the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation-funded Pirbright Institute owns a patent on coronavirus for vaccine creation purposes.

Was this whole outbreak engineered for the purpose of scaring the general public into accepting yet another government vaccine? Is it also about depopulating the planet as part of Bill Gates’ admitted efforts to use vaccination and “health care” as a means of reducing the world’s population by 10 to 15 percent?

Time will tell what becomes of this latest public health scare, but one thing is for sure: Bill Gates and his eugenicist buddies are chomping at the bit to vaccinate the entire planet against coronavirus and any other disease they can conjure up as a deadly bioweapon.

At the current time, the fatality rate associated with coronavirus infection is relatively low, around two percent. But that could very quickly change as the virus mutates and adapts to new environments, creating the horrific scenario predicted by Event 201.

“Experts agree that it is only a matter of time before one of these epidemics becomes global – a pandemic with potentially catastrophic consequences,” the Event 201 description ominously forebodes.

“A severe pandemic, which becomes ‘Event 201,’ would require reliable cooperation among several industries, national governments, and key international institutions.”

To keep up with the latest news about coronavirus, be sure to check out Outbreak.news.

You can also learn more about how many of these contagion scares are pre-planned, engineered false flag events at FalseFlag.news.

Sources for this article include:

CenterForHealthSecurity.org

NaturalNews.com

Patents.Justia.com

NaturalNews.com