An American woman filmed her journey as she was evacuated from Wuhan, the epicenter of the deadly coronavirus that has killed more than 500 people.

Priscilla Dickey filmed and photographed her journey with her eight-year-old daughter, which included deserted city streets of the quarantined city, her cab driver wearing a hazmat suit, and people wearing masks in the airport.

At one stage before boarding, Dickey says to the camera while wearing a mask: "Now, it's starring to finally hit me that I'm going to go America."

The US, like many countries, is bringing home its citizens who are in Wuhan. Its keeping those it's bringing home in quarantine in military bases for two weeks.

Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.

An American woman evacuated from China as the deadly coronavirus continues to spread filmed her journey and evacuation flight home with her 8-year-old daughter.

Priscilla Dickey filmed and photographed her journey to the US from the city of Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak, which included being picked up by a cab driver in a hazmat suit, deserted city streets, and an airport filled with people wearing masks.

Dickey's footage, shared with CNN, shows her being driven through the city of 11 million people, which appears almost completely empty as it undergoes a lockdown and its public transport links are severed, and a plane full of masked passengers.

At one stage, before boarding her flight chartered by the US State Department, Dickey says to the camera while wearing a mask: "Now, it's starring to finally hit me that I'm going to go America."

She says of seeing health screenings and masked officials in the airport: "I'm just realizing the scope of the situation I'm in."

You can watch the video in CNN's report here:

The US, like many other countries, is evacuating its citizens from Wuhan.

The US is quarantining people who arrive in from Wuhan at military bases for 14 days after their arrival. Passengers who arrive on commercial flights from China are being rerouted to certain US airports, where they may face quarantine.

Dickey had hoped to be on an earlier State Department flight last week, which was the first flight evacuating Americans.

But instead her and her family were left in Wuhan for another week after the family was unable to locate her eight-year-old daughter Priscilla's passport in time.

An earlier evacuation flight was filmed by Jarred Evans, a US citizen who filmed his journey back last week.

Evans described Wuhan as a ghost town since the city's lockdown began, and said he got multiple health checks on his flight back.

Wuhan is among a collection of cities under lockdown, affecting more than 50 million people.

You can watch his video, shared by CNN, here:

The virus has now killed more than 560 people, including two people outside of China.

The vast majority of cases are in China, where it has infected more than 27,000 people, and it has spread to at least 25 other countries.

The virus can spread from person to person, but health officials say they still do not understand how easily it can do this.