The coronavirus has officially made landfall in the United States, but something much deadlier and more dangerous has been infecting and killing millions of Americans and is a bigger threat for local residents, health officials say.

“You are much more likely to have influenza,” said Dr. Nora Colburn, an infectious disease physician at Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center. “... For a typical Ohioan or American, that would be the bigger concern.”

Not just right now, but every year, she said.

Almost as many people are falling ill as did two years ago, in what was a particularly severe flu season.

So far, there have been 15 million cases of flu, 140,000 hospitalizations, and 8,200 deaths in the U.S. this influenza season, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Worldwide, seasonal influenza epidemics cause between 3 million and 5 million severe cases every year and kill up to 650,000 people per year, according to the World Health Organization.

“That just far surpasses the amount of cases compared to the novel coronavirus,” Colburn said. ““If you didn't travel specifically to Wuhan, China, or have contact with a person with suspected or known coronavirus, your chance of contracting this is extremely low.”

In Ohio, there have been 3,034 confirmed flu hospitalizations and at least flu-related death of a child, as of Jan. 18, according to the Ohio Department of Health. The department only keeps track of pediatric flu deaths.

“The biggest health threat to our state right now is the influenza, not the coronavirus,” said Ohio Department of Health Medical Director Dr. Mark Hurst.

That's not to say that the coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan, China last month and has spread quickly with about 9,800 confirmed cases and 213 deaths in China as of Friday, shouldn't be taken seriously.

To be sure, the World Health Organization declared the coronavirus a global health emergency Thursday. But the risk of contracting it in the United States is low, health officials said.

Americans aren't adequately concerned about the flu and it's a problem, Hurst said.

“The flu is something that people feel like they know,” he said. “It follows a predictable course. It's something that's familiar to people. It brings an undeserved sense of comfort about it.”

Since flu season peaks between December and February, the worst could be still to come.

In a bad year, influenza kills up to 61,000 Americans, according to the CDC.

A 16-year-old girl from Cuyahoga County was the state's first's first flu-associated pediatric death of the 2019-20 flu season.

And the flu is leaving a mark on schools across the state, forcing several districts to close for cleaning.

Those that have closed include Miami Trace Local School District in Fayette County, Chillicothe City Schools in Ross County, Zane Trace in Ross County, Huntington Local schools in Ross County, Adena Local Schools in Ross County and Waverly City Schools in Pike County.

The best way to prevent the misery of the flu and its complications is to get vaccinated, and it's still not too late.

Just under half of American adults got a flu shot last season and 62% of children were vaccinated, according to the CDC.

“Some people don't appreciate how severe (the flu) can be and the consequences of it,” Colburn said.

Unlike the flu, there is no vaccine for coronavirus right now and no one knows exactly it is spread.

The first case of coronavirus was reported in the U.S. on Jan. 21 in Washington state, and U.S. officials on Thursday confirmed the first report of the virus spreading person-to-person in the country, saying the spouse of a patient diagnosed in Chicago had tested positive for the new coronavirus.

So far, six people in the U.S. have tested positive for coronavirus in Illinois, California, Washington and Arizona.

In Ohio, health officials announced Tuesday they are investigating two possible case of coronavirus at Miami University. The two students returned to Oxford after a trip to China and one of the student's went to Miami University's Student Health Services after complaining of not feeling well.

The State Department announced Thursday not to travel to China because of the coronavirus, and Ohio State University is temporarily restricting university-sponsored travel to China for all faculty, staff and students because of coronavirus. The ban went into effect Thursday and will remain in place until at least March 6.

Symptoms of the coronavirus are similar to the flu and include fever, cough and shortness of breath. Some patients only show mild symptoms and recover, but others have developed life-threatening complications like pneumonia.

“There's a lot that we don't know,” Colburn said.” So that's, I think, part of the issue why people are so nervous.”