Unlike the temperatures, gas prices are continuing to fall in the first part of 2020.

The ‘slump at the pump,’ is not expected to end anytime soon, according to GasBuddy.com and AAA.

"For the third straight week, motorists have been greeted by falling gasoline prices in virtually every corner in every city and state in the country," said Patrick DeHaan, head of petroleum analysis for GasBuddy. "Oil prices continue to sag on worries over the spread of the coronavirus, blowing the door wide open for a continued slump at the pump.

Nearly 5,000 stations are currently selling gasoline under $2 per gallon, a critical psychological level, while some 17 states have at least one gas station under the mark.

For most, there's no signs of the slump slowing, especially with fears of the spread of the Chinese-originating virus continuing to grow. Motorists need not be in a rush to fill up again, and with prices plummeting, I would urge them to be mindful that some stations are passing the drops on much faster and to shop around."

In the Harrisburg area, according to GasBuddy, prices have fallen almost 6 cents a gallon in the past week reaching an average of $2.61 a gallon today.

That price is 16 cents lower than a month ago but still 23.2 cents higher than a year ago.

The national average gas price, according to AAA, is $2.47 a gallon, “which is 4 cents cheaper than last week and 11 cents cheaper than the beginning of the year. “

According to AAA, “Gas prices are pushing cheaper for two reasons. Crude oil prices are $10 less a barrel than one month ago and U.S. gasoline stocks sit at an all-time record high. Cheaper crude and healthy stock levels mean motorists can expect prices to continue to decline this month.”

The lowest price in the Harrisburg area today is $2.45 a gallon, according to GasBuddy. That is at Carroll Motor Fuels in Carlisle.

Thanks for visiting PennLive. Quality local journalism has never been more important. We need your support. Not a subscriber yet? Please consider supporting our work.