AIRLINES are suspending flights to China in the wake of the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak.

Here is the latest on their plans (in alphabetical order):

AIR CANADA

Air Canada said on Jan 28 it was cancelling select flights to China.

AIR FRANCE

Air France said on Jan 30 it suspended all scheduled flights to and from mainland China until Feb 9.

AIR INDIA

Air India said it was cancelling its Mumbai-Delhi-Shanghai flight from Jan 31 to Feb 14.

AIR NEW ZEALAND

Air New Zealand said on Feb 1 it will suspend its Auckland-Shanghai service from Feb 9 to March 29 due to travel restrictions affecting crew and a decline in forward bookings.

AIR SEOUL

South Korean budget carrier Air Seoul said on Jan 28 it had suspended all flights to China.

AIR TANZANIA

Tanzania’s state-owned carrier said it would postpone its maiden flights to China. It had planned to begin charter flights to China in February.

AMERICAN AIRLINES

American Airlines said it will cancel flights to Beijing and Shanghai starting Jan 31, and run through March 27, though it will continue to fly to Hong Kong.

BRITISH AIRWAYS

BA said on Jan 30 it had cancelled all flights to mainland China for a month.

CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS

Hong Kong’s Cathay Pacific said it would progressively reduce capacity to and from mainland China by 50 per cent or more from Jan 30 to the end of March.

DELTA AIR LINES

Delta Air Lines accelerated earlier anounced suspensions: the last China-bound flights left on Feb 1, and the last returning flights from China will leave China today.

EGYPTAIR

Egypt’s flag carrier said on Jan 30 it would suspend all flights to and from China starting Feb 1.

EL AL ISRAEL AIRLINES

El Al Israel Airlines said on Jan 30 it was suspending flights to Beijing until March 25. Israel’s Health Ministry said it will not allow flights from China to land at its airports.

ETHIOPIAN AIRLINES

The African carrier on Jan 30 denied reports it had suspended all flights to China. The airline’s statement contradicted its passenger call centre, which told Reuters earlier in the day that flights to China had been suspended.

ETIHAD AIRWAYS

Abu Dhabi’s Etihad Airways said passenger flights between Beijing and Nagoya, in Japan, had been temporarily suspended due to low travel demand.

FINNAIR

Finland’s Finnair said it was cancelling all flights to mainland China between Feb 6 and Feb 29 and to Guangzhou between Feb 5 and March 29.

HAINAN AIRLINES

China’s Hainan Airlines suspended its flights between Budapest, Hungary, and Chongqing from Feb 7 until March 27, Budapest Airport said on its Faceook page.

KENYA AIRWAYS

Kenya Airways said on Jan 31 it has suspended all flights to China until further notice.

LION AIR

Indonesia’s Lion Air Group said on Jan 29 it would suspend all flights to China from February. The airline has suspended six flights from several Indonesian cities to China so far and will suspend the rest next month.

LOT POLISH AIRLINES

Polish carrier LOT said it had decided to temporarily suspend its flights to Beijing until Feb 9.

LUFTHANSA

Germany’s Lufthansa said on Jan 29 it was suspending Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian Airlines flights to and from China until Feb 9. The airline continues to fly to Hong Kong, but it will stop taking bookings for flights to mainland China until the end of February.

PHILIPPINES AIRLINES

Philippine Airlines said it would cut the number of flights between Manila and China by more than 50 per cent starting this month. it would continue to serve Filipinos and Chinese nationals returning from the Lunar New Year holidays.

QANTAS AIRWAYS

Australia’s Qantas said on Feb 1 it was suspending direct flights to mainland China. The Australian national carrier’s direct flights from Sydney to Beijing and Sydney to Shanghai will be halted from Feb 9 until March 29.

QATAR AIRWAYS

Qatar Airways said on Feb 1 it will suspend flights to mainland China from Monday until further notice.

ROYAL AIR MAROC

Moroccan airline Royal Air Maroc (RAM) has temporarily suspended its direct fl

ights to China, the company said on Jan 30. RAM had on Jan 16 launched a direct air route with three flights weekly between its Casablanca hub and Beijing.

RUSSIA

All Russian airlines, with the exception of national airline Aeroflot, will stop flying to China, Deputy Prime Minister Tatiana Golikova said.

RWANDAIR

Rwanda carrier RwandAir has halted flights to and from China until further notice, the airline said in a statement on Friday. The decision will be reviewed later in February, it said.

SAS

Nordic airline SAS said on Jan 30 it has decided to suspend all flights to and from Shanghai and Beijing from Jan 31 until Feb 9.

SAS offers 12 regular weekly connections from and to Shanghai and Beijing.

SCOOT

Singapore airline Scoot said it was suspending all flights between Singapore and China from Feb 8, media reported.

SHANGHAI AIRLINES

Shanghai Airlines said on Jan 31 it would suspend its Chengdu-Budapest flight between Feb 4 and March 28 and its Xi’an-Budapest flight between Feb 6 and March 26 according to a statement on the website of the Budapest Airport operator.

The airline’s Shanghai-Budapest flight is unaffected.

SINGAPORE AIRLINES

Singapore Airlines Ltd said on Jan 31 it would reduce capacity on some of its routes to mainland China in February.

The cuts include flights to Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Chengdu, Xiamen and Chongqing, some of which are flown by regional arm SilkAir.

TURKISH AIRLINES

Turkey’s flag carrier said on Jan 30 it would decrease frequency on scheduled flights to Beijing, Guangzhou, Shanghai and Xian between Feb 5 and Feb 29.

TURKMENISTAN AIRLINES

Turkmenistan Airlines, the Central Asian nation’s state carrier, said on Feb 1 it had suspended flights to and from Beijing.

UNITED AIRLINES

Chicago-based United announced cancellations, saying last flights out of mainland China will be Feb 5, running through March 28.

United had previously suspended 24 US flights to Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai between Feb 1 and Feb 8 because of a significant drop in demand.

VIETJET

Vietnam’s Vietjet has suspended all flights to and from China, the company said on Jan 31.

VIETNAM AIRLINES

Vietnam Airlines will suspend its flights to destinations in China next week over coronavirus concerns, the company said on Friday.

VIRGIN ATLANTIC

Virgin Atlantic said on Jan 30 it would suspend its daily operations to Shanghai for two weeks from Feb 2. It cited declining demand for flights and the safety of its customers and staff. - Reuters