Sign up to FREE email alerts from Mirror - daily news Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

NHS staff have been put on alert to spot signs of a mystery virus sweeping across Asia.

Experts warn the coronavirus could reach Britain after reports that a holidaymaker is fighting for his life in Thailand with similar symptoms.

The flu-like condition is similar to the SARS virus that killed 774 people in the early 2000s across dozens of countries, mostly in Asia.

The Chinese authorities have confirmed more than 200 cases have been officially diagnosed and three people have died.

Experts believe at least 2,000 people may have been infected but say UK airport checks would only detect those who have started to show symptoms.

It is thought to be spread when an infected person coughs or sneezes.

Dr Nathalie MacDermott, leading expert from King’s College London, said: “There is potential for exposure given the volume and frequency of international air travel and the potential for someone travelling from an affected region arriving in the UK prior to them developing symptoms.

(Image: STRINGER/EPA-EFE/REX) (Image: STR/EPA-EFE/REX)

“This is where appropriate screening measures need to be in place for travellers from affected regions who become unwell with fever and respiratory symptoms.

“Largely it would be something for a healthcare worker to consider if they had someone with respiratory symptoms who had history of contact with a confirmed case or travel to an affected region.

“Airport screening can be limited in its efficacy as it screens for fever in people with a travel history to an affected area and is dependent on travellers having symptoms at the time they pass through the airport.”

Public Health England said the risk of it reaching Britain was “very low” but it had issued advice to medics to be on alert.

Deputy director Dr Nick Phin said. “We have issued advice to the NHS and are keeping the situation under constant review.

“People travelling to Wuhan should maintain good hand, respiratory and personal hygiene and should seek medical attention if they develop respiratory symptoms within 14 days of visiting the area.”

The outbreak is believed to have originated from a market in Wuhan, China.

(Image: Getty Images/Image Source)

Chinese President and Communist Party leader Xi Jinping today told state media: “People’s lives and health should be given top priority and the spread of the outbreak should be resolutely curbed.

“The recent outbreak... must be taken seriously. Party committees, governments and relevant departments at all levels should put people’s lives and health first.”

Dr Jeremy Farrar, director of major UK health charity the Wellcome Trust said: “It is possible that the often mild symptoms, and probability of people being affected and infectious without experiencing symptoms may be masking the true numbers of people who have been infected.”

Dr Mike Turner, science director at Wellcome, said: “Estimates of the size of any outbreak are very difficult to predict at this early stage but it is clearly still spreading. We are all more concerned than we were three days ago.”

British traveller Ash Shorley could be the first western victim of the coronavirus after falling seriously ill with a pneumonia-like lung infection. The 32-year-old was rushed to hospital in Phuket.

Doctors found his symptoms are consistent with the Chinese coronavirus but it has not been confirmed.

Parents Chris and Julie, both 55, from Thornton, Lancashire, have flown out to be at his bedside.

Prof John Edmunds, of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM), said: “Whilst there have been two cases that have travelled to Thailand from Wuhan, there is no evidence of any transmission of this virus in Thailand as yet.

“Although it is possible that this is a case of the novel coronavirus, it would seem very unlikely.”

A spokesman for PHE added: “We are aware of reports of a British national hospitalised in Thailand. We are seeking further information.”