Three cases of the deadly coronavirus have been confirmed in New South Wales, bringing the total nationwide to four.

NSW Health tonight confirmed three men – aged in theirs 30s, 40s and 50s – are being treated in Westmead Hospital in Sydney and are in isolation.

All three men arrived on flights from China – one on January 6, one on January 19 and the other date is being checked by authorities.

Mr Hazzard labelled it a “tricky” and “evolving” virus

Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam said all official visits to the mainland and official Lunar New Year celebrations would be scrapped immediately.

Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam on Saturday declared a virus emergency in the Asian financial hub, announcing a package of measures to limit the city’s links with mainland China.

Schools, now on Lunar New Year holidays, would remain shut until Feb. 17, while inbound and outbound flights and high-speed rail trips between Hong Kong and Wuhan would be halted.

Lam said all official visits to the mainland and official Lunar New Year celebrations would be scrapped immediately.

She also said she had sought the assistance from China’s State Council to ensure on-going mask supplies were adequate.

They may also ask universities to extend holidays too.

Lam’s statements came hours after she returned from the World Economic Forum in Davos and amid broader tensions as her team grapples with at times violent anti-government protests that have rumbled on for seven months.

“I hereby urge all citizens stay united to fight against the epidemic to protect all Hong Kong people’s health and safety,” Lam said.

She added that it would be impractical to shut down all border crossings with the mainland.

Some protesters have railed against growing interference from Beijing seeking to curb the city’s freedoms while others have expressed fear over greater integration with the mainland.

CHINA’S Health officials in say 15 more people have died from a coronavirus in the province of Hubei, where the outbreak first started.

There are currently 1,287 confirmed cases in China, 41 of whom have died.

It comes as China begins celebrations of the Lunar New Year, one of the most important dates in its calendar.

Many events have been cancelled and a new hospital is being built in the city of Wuhan.

One of the dead was a doctor at a hospital in Hubei, China Global Television Network reported.

The virus has also now spread to Europe, with three cases confirmed in France.

The first case was in Bordeaux, while the other two were in the Paris area, the French health minister said on Friday night.

Coronavirus deaths rise to 41 in China as outbreak spreads to 11 other countries

Nearly 1, 300 people have been infected across the world as health authorities scramble to prevent a global pandemic.

The virus has also been detected in Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Nepal, France, the US, Australia and Malaysia.

Health authorities across the world are scrambling to prevent a global pandemic.

Australia announced three confirmed cases on Saturday. One, a Chinese man in his 50s who returned from Wuhan on 19 January, is in a stable condition in hospital.

France said that three people had fallen ill with the virus – the disease’s first appearance in Europe.

Wuhan Coronavirus live map

China orders nationwide measures to detect virus…

Doctor at Wuhan Hospital Dies…

Medic claims ‘100,000 infected’…

MCDONALD’S SHUTS… DISNEYLAND SHUTS…

CASE IN CHICAGO…

22 STATES ON ALERT…

EUROPE HIT…

BUG ESCAPED FROM LAB?

Scientists race to develop vaccine…