Dr Li Wenliang died from the coronavirus at Wuhan General Hospital on 6 February, 2020 | Photo Credit: Twitter

Key Highlights In December, Li, who worked as an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital, sent a series of messages on a private alumni group on WeChat, warning his friends

Since the death of the first victim, 637 more have followed, with 31,493 cases reported in Mainland China, and across the world (as of 7 February)

China's censorship apparatus is now gargantuan, and much of that has to do with the ascent of Xi Jinping in 2012

Late on 6 February, Wuhan Central Hospital, via a statement, confirmed that Dr Li Wenliang, the whistle-blower who tried to warn his friends of the Coronavirus threat, had himself succumbed to the condition. What has since followed is an outpouring of anger and sorrow at Li's death, with scores of people on Weibo (the popular Chinese messaging platform) labelling him a 'hero' for his efforts.

In December, Li, who worked as an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital, sent a series of messages on a private alumni group on WeChat, warning his friends that a number of people had been diagnosed with a “SARS-like” virus after visiting a seafood market. Within hours, the Wuhan police had contacted Li, accusing him of spreading dangerous rumours. In becoming the latest victim of the state's surveillance and control, Li joined eight other Wuhan residents who were also detained by the Wuhan police.

Li received an official Reprimand from the Wuhan Public Security Bureau, and two days later a public notice was issued by the same bureau stating that the rumour of “seven cases of SARS connected to the Huanan Fruit and Seafood Market have been diagnosed.” was untrue. On 7 January, Chinese authorities communicated to the World Health Organisation that they had identified a new strain of the Coronavirus – 2019-nCoV. 4 days later, the virus claimed its first victim – a 61-year old man who had visited the seafood market in December.

Since the death of the first victim, 637 more have followed, with 31,493 cases reported in Mainland China, and across the world (as of 7 February). Although international bodies have stated that China has been far more forthright than in 2003 (during the SARS outbreak) in divulging information around the extent of the virus outbreak, cases like Li Wenliang's throw into sharp relief China's overarching motivation to control and direct the narrative around the Coronavirus infection. The gross overreaction to Li's post and his subsequent arrest highlight the lengths the Chinese government will go to, to stifle dissenters or for that matter, anyone spreading information that may jeopardise the narrative that it has prescribed for the country.





China's censorship apparatus is now gargantuan, and much of that has to do with the ascent of Xi Jinping in 2012. 'The Great Firewall', as it has come to be called, follows from a series of legislative and infrastructural measures implemented during the rule of Xi, that aim to control the virtual world in the same way that the state controls the real world.

The Chinese Communist Party amassed popularity through promises of economic development and growth and has since managed to achieve great success in wresting the country from the grips of poverty. But in the fine print of the contract it signed with the Chinese people, were clauses that saw the populace sign away their rights to free speech. The implementation of the vast censorship apparatus of the state, and the government's inclination to employ it unscrupulously, has seen many bloggers, cartoonists, and artists banned from social media platforms. Some have even fled the country out of fear.

It is within this context that many within China have viewed the death of Li Wenliang. The Chinese government has bought credit from its sloganeering that the people of the country will always come first, but cases such as Li's hint that when it really boils down to it, it is the Party that is first insulated. Following Li's death, Weibo was flush with thousands of posts using two hashtags - “We want freedom of speech” and “I want freedom of speech.” Predictably both hashtags were censored within a matter of hours. Already being hailed as a 'martyr' by some netizens, it remains to be seen whether Li's death will be in vain or not.

The views expressed by the author are personal and do not in any way represent those of Times Network.