A fake coronavirus warning is causing panic after pranksters claimed eating noodles and going to the Sydney suburb of Newtown could give you the deadly disease.

Australians have been warned not to fall for the hoax, after a viral post online claimed popular foods and even whole Sydney suburbs were infected.

One viral post, claiming to be from the non-existent 'Department of Diseasology in Parramatta', warned against eating fortune cookies, Lipton ice tea or Wagyu beef.

It claimed the deadly disease, which has killed 106 people in China, was 'spreading in the Greater Sydney region' - which it is not.

Several Australians have been taken to hospitals as a precaution (pictured) but the disease is not 'spreading across Sydney' as has been claimed online

The hoax Facebook post (pictured) was shared thousands of times online, but NSW Health officials have since dismissed its claims

The hoaxer also said tests had found air was contaminated with coronavirus in Cabramatta, Burwood, Strathfield, Newtown, Chester Hill and Guildford.

Not only does the department not exist, but diseasology isn't even a word.

But that didn't stop thousands of Australian Facebook users sharing their concerns after reading the hoax.

The NSW Health Department warned residents to be vigilant with what they read online, dismissing all the viral post's claims as a hoax.

Increasing public fear over the virus, which has been traced to the Chinese city of Wuhan, has seen a series of bizarre, fear-mongering claims spread on social media.

A Facebook user shared an email they had received full of fake, fear-mongering information about the coronavirus

Viral hoaxes online claimed several Asian foods were contaminated with coronavirus in Greater Sydney (stock image) which is not true

CORONAVIRUS CASES IN AUSTRALIA NEW SOUTH WALES: 4 Four people in NSW have been diagnosed with coronavirus, including three men and one woman. January 25 Three men aged 43, 53, and 35 who had recently travelled to China are confirmed to have contracted the disease.

Two flew in from Wuhan while the other arrived in Sydney from Shenzhen, south China.

They are being treated in isolation at Westmead Hospital and are in stable condition. January 27 A 21-year-old woman is identified as the fourth person to test positive for the illness in NSW.

The woman, a student at UNSW, flew into Sydney International Airport on flight MU749 on January 23 and presented to the emergency department 24 hours later after developing flu-like symptoms.

She is being treated in isolation at Westmead Hospital. VICTORIA: 4 January 25 A Chinese national aged in his 50s becomes the first confirmed case of the coronavirus in Australia.

The man flew to Melbourne on China Southern flight CZ321 from Wuhan via Guangzhou on January 19.

He is now in quarantined isolation at Monash Hospital in Clayton in Melbourne's east. January 29 A Victorian man in his 60s is diagnosed with the coronavirus.

He became unwell on January 23 - two days after returning from the Chinese city of Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak.

The man was confirmed as positive on January 29 and was subsequently seen by doctors at the Monash Medical Centre. He was assessed as being well enough to stay at home. January 30 A woman in her 40s falls ill with the coronavirus.

She was visiting from China and mostly spent time with her family.

She is being treated at Royal Melbourne Hospital. February 1 A Melbourne woman aged in her 20s is at home recovering. She returned from Wuhan on January 25 and fell ill two days later. She was not infectious on the flight, and has remained in isolation since being tested. QUEENSLAND: 2 January 29 Queensland confirms its first case after a 44-year-old Chinese national wass diagnosed with the virus.

He is being treated at Gold Coast University Hospital. January 30 A 42-year-old Chinese woman who was travelling in the same Wuhan tour group as the 44-year-old man tests positive. She is in Gold Coast University Hospital in stable condition. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 2 February 1 A Chinese couple were placed in isolation in a public hospital. The man and a woman both aged 60, were from Wuhan and visiting relatives in South Australia. SA Health said the pair isolated themselves at home when they developed symptoms and awaited the results of the coronavirus test. Australia has raised the travel alert level to 'do not travel' for the city of Wuhan - the epicentre of the outbreak - and for the entire Hubei province. Chief Medical Officer Brendan Murphy says unless people have contact with someone who is unwell and has come from that part of China, there is no need for current concern.

Several childcare centres even re-posted the hoax on their social media pages.

An official warning read: 'NSW Health has been made aware of a social media post that is being widely circulated warning people to not consume certain foods or visit certain locations in Sydney.

'This post has not originated from NSW Health or any related entity. Further, there is no such entity as the “Department of Diseasology Parramatta”.

'NSW Health would like to assure the community that the locations mentioned in this post pose no risk to visitors, and there have been no “positive readings” at train stations.'

Some Australians have also reported receiving a badly-spelled email claiming to be from a laboratory.

It advises bizarre methods of keeping safe from the disease, including 'keeping your throat moist'.

The hoaxers recommended people drink 'warm water' and to 'not go to crowded places' until the end of March.

It comes as official advice from the Australian government urged people to reconsider any travel to China.

Officials also advised against any visit to Hubei Province as the country struggles to contain the deadly coronavirus epidemic.

Emma Wei (pictured) and her two children, from Melbourne, are just three of 400 Australians trapped in Wuhan amid China's lockdown

The outbreak sweeping through China has the potential to become a pandemic in Australia - where five cases have been confirmed and several more are expected to emerge.

About 400 Australians remain trapped in the Hubei province, the epicentre of the deadly outbreak which has killed 106 people and infected more than 4,000.

Government website Smart Traveller updated its travel advice for China early on Wednesday morning.

'Due to the outbreak of novel coronavirus we now advise you "reconsider your need to travel" to China overall and "do not travel" to Hubei Province,' the Smart Traveller advice read.

Online pranksters claimed deadly coronavirus had been found in the air in the inner-Sydney suburb of Newtown (pictured)

More than 11 million people are stranded and unable to travel in or out of the region as China stepped up preventive measures to limit its spread.

The virus, which belongs to the same family as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), has spread to 17 countries.

No deaths have been reported outside of China so far.

Five people are being treated in Australian hospitals for the virus but Australia's Chief Medical Officer Brendan Murphy said they were all in a stable condition.

Health Minister Greg Hunt warned the disease is of 'pandemic potential' and the number of cases in the country is expected to rise as more are tested every day.

Hoaxers online claimed Cabramatta (pictured), 30km south-west of Sydney's CBD, had been infected with coronavirus