People returning from China could be placed at a military base, says health department

Britons returning from coronavirus-hit Wuhan will be placed in quarantine for 14 days.

Officials are considering taking passengers to a military base once they arrive home, the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said.

Advice from Public Health England published on Tuesday told UK citizens returning from Wuhan to stay indoors and avoid contact with other people, as is the advice with other flu viruses, and to call NHS 111 to inform them if they have recently travelled to the city.

Flights taking Britons back home from the coronavirus-hit Chinese province of Hubei could begin on Thursday as urgent plans for a major evacuation were put in place.

Passengers may be asked to sign a contract before they board the plane saying they agree to being placed in quarantine, the DHSC said. Anyone who does not wish to sign could be asked to stay.

The health secretary Matt Hancock tweeted: “We are working hard to get British nationals back from Wuhan. Public safety is the top priority. Anyone who returns from Wuhan will be safely isolated for 14 days, with all necessary medical attention.”

Ministry of Defence sources said the option of quaranteening returnees at a military facility was under consideration if politicians deemed it was necessary. No facility had selected yet, they added, although conversations were ongoing between the Department of Health, the Foreign Office and the ministry.

Play Video 3:18 Coronavirus and the voices of Wuhan: 'My anxiety is increasing day by day' – video

The advantage of using a base is that Britons returning from China could be flown in by a charter to a secure location where appropriate medical staff would be on hand, possibly to transfer people to specialist hospitals if needed. But such a drastic option would be most likely be deployed only in the last resort.

The Foreign Office is warning against all but essential travel to the country because of the outbreak of the disease, and British Airways has suspended all flights to and from mainland China with immediate effect.

Quick guide What is the coronavirus and should we be worried? Show Hide What is Covid-19 - the illness that started in Wuhan? It is caused by a member of the coronavirus family that has never been encountered before. Like other coronaviruses, it has come from animals. Many of those initially infected either worked or frequently shopped in the Huanan seafood wholesale market in the centre of the Chinese city. Have there been other coronaviruses? Severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) and Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome (Mers) are both caused by coronaviruses that came from animals. In 2002, Sars spread virtually unchecked to 37 countries, causing global panic, infecting more than 8,000 people and killing more than 750. Mers appears to be less easily passed from human to human, but has greater lethality, killing 35% of about 2,500 people who have been infected. What are the symptoms caused by the new coronavirus? The virus can cause pneumonia. Those who have fallen ill are reported to suffer coughs, fever and breathing difficulties. In severe cases there can be organ failure. As this is viral pneumonia, antibiotics are of no use. The antiviral drugs we have against flu will not work. Recovery depends on the strength of the immune system. Many of those who have died were already in poor health. Should I go to the doctor if I have a cough? UK Chief Medical Officers are advising anyone who has travelled to the UK from mainland China, Thailand, Japan, Republic of Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia or Macau in the last 14 days and who is experiencing a cough or fever or shortness of breath to stay indoors and call NHS 111, even if symptoms are mild. Is the virus being transmitted from one person to another? China’s national health commission has confirmed human-to-human transmission, and there have been such transmissions elsewhere. How many people have been affected? As of 6 March, the global death toll was 3,404, while more than 100,000 people have been infected in more than 80 countries, according to the Johns Hopkins University Center for Systems Science and Engineering. Why is this worse than normal influenza, and how worried are the experts? We don’t yet know how dangerous the new coronavirus is, and we won’t know until more data comes in. The mortality rate is around 2% at the centre of the outbreak, Hubei province, and less than that elsewhere. For comparison, seasonal flu typically has a mortality rate below 1% and is thought to cause about 400,000 deaths each year globally. Sars had a death rate of more than 10%. Another key unknown is how contagious the coronavirus is. A crucial difference is that unlike flu, there is no vaccine for the new coronavirus, which means it is more difficult for vulnerable members of the population – elderly people or those with existing respiratory or immune problems – to protect themselves. Hand-washing and avoiding other people if you feel unwell are important. One sensible step is to get the flu vaccine, which will reduce the burden on health services if the outbreak turns into a wider epidemic. Is the outbreak a pandemic? A pandemic, in WHO terms, is “the worldwide spread of a disease”. Coronavirus cases have been confirmed outside China, but by no means in all 195 countries on the WHO’s list. It is also not spreading within those countries at the moment, except in a very few cases. By far the majority of cases are travellers who picked up the virus in China. Should we panic? No. The spread of the virus outside China is worrying but not an unexpected development. The WHO has declared the outbreak to be a public health emergency of international concern. The key issues are how transmissible this new coronavirus is between people, and what proportion become severely ill and end up in hospital. Often viruses that spread easily tend to have a milder impact. Generally, the coronavirus appears to be hitting older people hardest, with few cases in children. Sarah Boseley, Hannah Devlin and Martin Belam

Britons in the city of Wuhan had until 11am (3am GMT) to contact the UK consulate telling them if they wished to leave – it is thought at least 200 British citizens want to return.



A British teacher in Wuhan said UK citizens were being given details of forthcoming flights and that a number of Britons had arranged to return home, with some scheduled on a flight at 7am on Thursday.

The Foreign Office said it might become more difficult for British nationals in other provinces to leave and advised them to “make decisions based on their own personal circumstances” over whether to evacuate. The British embassy in Beijing warned that transport to get UK citizens out “may happen quickly and with short notice”.

The UK foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, said: “[Officials are] working urgently to finalise arrangements for an assisted departure from Hubei province for British nationals this week, and are in contact with people in Hubei to ensure they register their interest and that we can keep them updated.”

He added: “Due to the increasing travel restrictions and the public health situation, we now advise against all but essential travel to China.”

The death toll in China has risen to 132, with confirmed infections up to nearly 6,000. France was the first European country to report a case, while four cases have been confirmed in Germany.

The United Arab Emirates has also confirmed its first cases of the virus, in a family who recently returned to the country from Wuhan.

Australian officials announced plans to evacuate some of its nationals from Wuhan and the surrounding Hubei province, with plans to quarantine them in the Christmas Island immigration detention centre for up to 14 days – the incubation period for the virus.

In the UK, the DHSC has given the all-clear to 97 people but scientists predict the virus may have entered the country. More than 1,400 people have returned from Wuhan since 10 January.

In China, Hubei province has been on lockdown for several days while the government has imposed travel restrictions between its major cities, and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has suspended activities of all tour group companies to prevent the virus spreading.

On Tuesday, Hong Kong said it would temporarily close some of its borders with mainland China and stop issuing travel permits to mainland tourists.