Mia Mixan of Papillion attends Duke Kunshan University in China. The freshman is studying global China studies. Mixan's university is five hours from Wuhan, the epicenter of the deadly Coronavirus.Mixan said, "It's frightening because we don't know when it's going to end."Mixan told KETV there are two cases of the virus near her university and officials acted quickly. Mixan said she learned Saturday the university would be closing for two weeks in response to the deadly outbreak."As soon as it started to be a threat to us they created an emergency virus team, and started to provide us masks," said Mixan. The student said she is staying with friends in Taiwan until it is safe to return to China. Meanwhile, Chinese officials are stepping up travel restrictions in an attempt to contain the virus. "I'm not gonna go back to China until this is figured out," Mixan said. "It doesn't make sense, especially being in the airport is the most dangerous thing."Mixan is grateful that she is safe, but she fears for the safety of her classmates. "I'm more worried about my friends who are living in China who are still home right now for Chinese New Year," said Mixan. "What's going to happen to them?"

Mia Mixan of Papillion attends Duke Kunshan University in China. The freshman is studying global China studies. Mixan's university is five hours from Wuhan, the epicenter of the deadly Coronavirus.

Mixan said, "It's frightening because we don't know when it's going to end."

Mixan told KETV there are two cases of the virus near her university and officials acted quickly. Mixan said she learned Saturday the university would be closing for two weeks in response to the deadly outbreak.

"As soon as it started to be a threat to us they created an emergency virus team, and started to provide us masks," said Mixan.

The student said she is staying with friends in Taiwan until it is safe to return to China. Meanwhile, Chinese officials are stepping up travel restrictions in an attempt to contain the virus.

"I'm not gonna go back to China until this is figured out," Mixan said. "It doesn't make sense, especially being in the airport is the most dangerous thing."

Mixan is grateful that she is safe, but she fears for the safety of her classmates.

"I'm more worried about my friends who are living in China who are still home right now for Chinese New Year," said Mixan. "What's going to happen to them?"