© Perry Vandell/The Republic Arizona State University students Huijia Lin (left) and Yuxin Lu wear masks to protect themselves from the new coronavirus on Jan. 27, 2020, in Tempe.

Arizona State University President Michael Crow told The Arizona Republic that university officials are addressing the concerns of students with compromised immune systems or students who live with such individuals who are concerned about being infected with the novel coronavirus.

© Patrick Breen/The Republic Daba Yague wears a mask as she walks between classes after a confirmed case of the new coronavirus was reported on ASU's Tempe campus on Jan. 26, 2020.

During an email conversation Tuesday evening, Crow told The Republic that university officials are working with concerned people individually, including those with compromised immune systems.

"We have a few dozen students, of the 75,000 on campus, that have reached out with some of these concerns," Crow wrote. "We have worked with each that has asked for support."

Start the day smarter. Get all the news you need in your inbox each morning.

The email conversation came after a number of ASU students expressed concern that the university and health officials haven't shared enough information about the virus and its potential impact in the local community.

For more stories that matter: Click here to subscribe to azcentral.com

Officials with the Arizona Department of Health Services confirmed on Sunday that a member of the ASU community had been diagnosed with the coronavirus after returning from Wuhan, China.

The person isn't seriously ill, lives in Tempe but not in student housing and is in isolation, according to the agency.

The agency recommends people wash their hands frequently, avoid touching their face and receive a flu shot.

Over 21,600 people have signed a Change.org petition calling on ASU to cancel classes until it has provided more information and taken additional precautions, such as disinfecting areas the infected individual may have been, as of 1:30 p.m. Wednesday.

The university has refused to cancel classes, citing claims from health officials that the immediate risk to the general public is low. ASU barred all university-related travel to China on Tuesday as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Other students have expressed concerns about infecting vulnerable family members, such as their grandparents.

"As to the students concerned about their grandparents, as of the moment, the most significant risk here in Arizona is the flu of this particular season," Crow said. "We have many dozens of those cases we are dealing with and one corona virus case as of the moment."

Crow advised those with unaddressed concerns to contact the ASU health center. Students can contact the ASU health center by calling 480-965-3349.

"And if that doesn’t work then direct them to me," Crow said.

Reach the reporter Perry Vandell at 602-444-2474 or perry.vandell@gannett.com. Follow him on Twitter @PerryVandell.

Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com today.

This article originally appeared on Arizona Republic: ASU President Michael Crow says university is working with students concerned about coronavirus