Sign up to FREE email alerts from Irish Mirror - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

An Irish teacher living in China, spent his birthday alone in locked-down Wuhan as the deadly coronavirus continues to ravage the city.

Ben Kavanagh, from Kilcullen in Kildare, had a solitary celebration as people are avoiding contact due to the spread of the infection.

He has been living in Wuhan, the capital of central China’s Hubei province, for almost two years now.

Mr Kavanagh told Newstalk Breakfast on Tuesday that a friend offered to spend the day with him but he had to refuse: “I said no because there’s no way to tell if anyone is infected.”

The young man has stocked up on enough food for 10-14 days and says he's trying his best to avoid the illness.

And while he is trying not to panic, he admitted he's more worried than he was last week as more cases of the illness have been reported and people are avoiding one another.

Mr Kavanagh said: “When I went out on Sunday I wore a mask.”

"When you do see people, everyone just keeps themselves to themselves and just tries to stay away from other people.

"You're suspicious of other people, strangely - 'maybe that person's infected and they don't know it' - 'cause there's such a long incubation period and you can still infect others".

“There’s not much point in worrying, but if the situation gets worse then I might worry.

“I’m trying my best not to get infected.”

And when asked about the possibility of returning home to Ireland, he revealed his fears leaving Wuhan might be a bad idea if he unwittingly helped spread the virus.

Mr Kavanagh said: "The Irish Government are looking at measures right now and they've been in contact with the Irish people in Wuhan - but if I leave, I feel like I'd be leaving my life behind.

"What if leaving would spreads the disease more?”

(Image: Getty Images/iStockphoto)

Last week, the teacher told how the city has become a "ghost town" as people hid indoors to prevent the spread of disease.

"You are allowed out, but there are so many rumours and people are worried, it’s better not to,” he said.

“It’s almost like a ghost town."

Mr Kavanagh revealed the latest advice is for people to wear eye protection as it is thought the virus can spread through contact with eyes.

The majority of people in China are already wearing masks to try to evade the deadly infection.