Here are simple precautions that can protect you from contracting the rapidly spreading Coronavirus.

How to stay safe from the Coronavirus

A South Australian couple is among up to 2000 people stranded on a cruise ship in the South China Sea after it was refused entry to the Philippines after the country recorded the first coronavirus death outside China.

David and Judy Holst, from Adelaide, were in the midst of a cruise through Asia on Holland America’s ship Westerdam when the journey was thwarted by the Philippines’ decision to temporarily ban travellers from China, Hong Kong and Macau.

The ship, which left Hong Kong on Saturday, was heading to Manila when the news came through.

“My wife and I were at dinner and I said, ‘The boat’s slowed down’,” Mr Holst told ABC Radio Adelaide.

“It obviously was and then a little while later an announcement came over the PA saying Manila has denied us entry.”

RELATED: Follow our coronavirus coverage

The decision from Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte came after the country recorded the first coronavirus death outside China.

A spokesperson for Holland America Line told news.com.au the company was “surprised” by the ruling by Philippines authorities.

“This is obviously a rapidly-evolving situation and we were also surprised by the decision from local authorities that we would not be able to call in Manila as had been previously confirmed,” the spokesperson said.

“This decision does not only apply to Holland America Line and we are continuing to work to provide the best experience we can for our guests in these unusual and rapidly evolving circumstances.

“We never want to disappoint our guests and appreciate their understanding that decisions by local authorities are beyond our control.”

RELATED: First Aussies from Wuhan arrive at Christmas Island

Holland America Line said it was undertaking a range of measures in light of the coronavirus outbreak, including refusing boarding to passengers who had visited mainland China in the past two weeks, providing medical screening for passengers with respiratory illness, performing extra disinfection cleaning on-board and delaying crew members from mainland China from joining ships.

However Mr Holst told the ABC he was concerned the ship had stopped to pick up another 800 passengers in Hong Kong — even though Hong Kong does not have the same “do not travel” advice as mainland China.

Mr Holst said he was told to “be quiet and go away” when he raised his concerns with Holland America Line staff.

“I couldn’t believe that we were actually going to go there, but now the Philippines have implemented bans and we’ve had to do a U-turn,” he said.

“‘We’re always working in your best interests’ – that’s what Holland America keeps telling us – and I’m certainly scratching my head on that one.”

The Holland America Line spokesperson said the decision to continue with the ship’s call at Hong Kong on Saturday was “complex and thoroughly evaluated based on the information available at the time”.

“Hong Kong was (and still as at this time) considered a Watch Level 1 by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC),” the spokesperson said, adding the rating meant travellers should “practice usual precautions”.

“Our medical experts are co-ordinating closely with both the CDC and the World Health Organisation (WHO) to implement enhanced screening, prevention and control measures for our ships globally.”

The Westerdam, which departed Hong Kong on Saturday, was meant to end its journey in Shanghai, but Holland America said last week the journey would avoid China and end in Japan instead.

It is due to arrive in the Taiwan port of Kaohsiung tomorrow.

ANOTHER SHIP REJECTED OVER ILLNESS FEARS

The ship’s ban comes as a different vessel with 3000 passengers on-board was refused entry at two Caribbean ports due to concerns over passengers with respiratory illnesses.

The AIDA Perla was turned away by officials in the island destinations of St Lucia and Dominica in the Caribbean over the weekend due to the “high number” of passengers on-board with respiratory tract infections.

It was first denied from docking at St Lucia’s capital Castries on Saturday, local time, before being refused at its next port, in Dominica, on Sunday.

The AIDA Perla’s owner AIDA Cruises told Fox News there was no evidence of coronavirus on-board.

It said the ship had not been granted clearance by officials out of an “abundance of caution” but “at no time were any cases of coronavirus suspected” by health officials.

The company said 20 of the 4384 passengers and crew members on-board were being treated for the common cold or flu.

CRUISE ASSOCIATION BANS CHINESE VISITORS

As concerns intensify over the fast-spreading coronavirus, a major cruise industry body said passengers who had visited China in the last two weeks would be banned from ships.

The Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA) said its global members were taking extra precautions to prevent on-board outbreaks of the deadly virus.

The association represents many of the world’s largest operators including P&O Australia, Carnival Cruise Line, Royal Caribbean International, Princess Cruises, Cunard Line and Holland America Cruise Line.

It said crew movements from China had been suspended and boarding would be denied to any passenger or crew member who had travelled from, or through, mainland China in the past two weeks.

Passengers can be screened through questionnaires and checks of travel documents, while some cruise companies will enforce mandatory health checks for some or all guests before boarding, the Washington Post reported.

“The cruise industry is one of the most well-equipped and experienced when it comes to managing and monitoring health conditions of passengers and crew,” the CLIA said in a statement.

“Cruise lines take precautions to conduct passive as well as active screening of passengers and crew for illness prior to boarding when circumstances demand.

“Furthermore, CLIA members implement outbreak prevention and response measures and their ships must be fitted with medical facilities, shipboard and shore side medical professionals available around the clock, 24/7, to provide initial medical care in the event of illness and prevent disease transmission.”

Fears of the deadly coronavirus caused a cruise ship to be locked down at a port near Rome, leaving 7000 passengers and crew, including 27 Australians, stranded on-board.

The Costa Smeralda was put in lockdown after a 54-year-old woman from Macau came down with a fever and breathing problems.

She and her husband were put in solitary confinement for testing while all other passengers were told they could not leave the ship. The woman was cleared of coronavirus, and the ship was understood to have resumed its voyage.

Several cruise companies have cancelled or adjusted itineraries to avoid China and Hong Kong amid the virus crisis, while popular cruise destination the Bahamas has said it will refuse cruise passengers disembarking from ships if they have visited China in the previous 20 days.