BEIJING/GENEVA: The World Health Organisation (WHO) said on Monday the spread of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) cases among people who have not been to China could be “the spark that becomes a bigger fire” and the human race must not let the epidemic get out of control.

As of early Tuesday, there had been 42,638 confirmed cases reported in China and 1,011 deaths, as well as 319 cases in 24 other countries, including two deaths, WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said.

Medical personnel work near the cruise ship Diamond Princess, where dozens of passengers were tested positive for coronavirus, at Daikoku Pier Cruise Terminal in Yokohama, south of Tokyo, Japan. -Reuters

The Diamond Princess cruise ship with 3,700 passengers and crew on board remained quarantined in the Japanese port of Yokohama, with 65 more cases detected, taking the number of confirmed cases from the Carnival Corp-owned vessel to 135.

Wu Fan, vice-dean of Shanghai Fudan University Medical school, said there was hope of a turning point in the outbreak. But Ghebreyesus said there had been “concerning instances” of transmission from people who had not been to China.

“It could be the spark that becomes a bigger fire,” Ghebreyesus told reporters in Geneva. “But for now it is only a spark. Our objective remains containment.

World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus says the spread of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) cases among people who have not been to China could be “the spark that becomes a bigger fire”. - AFP

“We should really fight hard as one human race to fight this virus before it gets out of control,” he said.

An advance team of international WHO experts arrived in China to investigate.

“This mission brings together the best of Chinese science, Chinese public health with the best of the world’s public health“, the WHO’s Mike Ryan said.

The death toll from the outbreak has now surpassed that of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which killed hundreds worldwide in 2002/2003.

Personnel in protective gear prepare to evacuate residents from a public housing building following the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, in Hong Kong. -Reuters

In Britain, the government said the number of confirmed coronavirus cases there had doubled to eight. It declared the virus a serious and imminent threat, giving it additional powers to isolate those suspected of being infected.

A prolonged and widespread coronavirus outbreak could hit the Japanese economy, affecting tourism, retail and exports, an International Monetary Fund official said. Canada said the outbreak will hit tourism and the oil industry. - Reuters