0 SHARES Facebook Twitter

Matrix Media Interview

Matrix Media sat with Salman Bashir, Pakistan’s former top diplomat, to discuss the regional situation arising out of the assassination of the Iranian General Qassim Soleimani. He advocates a ban on the use of drones for termination missions i.e. elimination of political individuals or groups that a state views as enemies. He also says Pakistan should work with like-minded states in outlawing the use or threat of use of weapons such as drones and prevent this from becoming a NEOMORMAL. The annexation of Kashmir by India, insists Salman Bashir, will have to be reversed, as history does not “allow horrors of foreign occupation to stand.” An unjust societal order cannot last indefinitely, says the former secretary. Below is the detailed interview:

Matrix Media: How the US President has tried to impose a neo-normal on the world by eliminating an Iranian general in a third country? Can we call it neo-normal?

Salman Bashir: The assassination of Gen Qassim Soleimani by US forces in Baghdad cannot be justified. It was violative of international law and recognized principles of interstate conduct. It was a unilateral action mandated at the highest levels of the US government. The US is not officially in a declared war against Iran. The argument of preemptive self-defense is dubious and does not provide sufficient grounds for justifying this action. Of course, the US has used drones to eliminate opponents in cold blood with considerable collateral damages such as in the erstwhile tribal regions of Pakistan and elsewhere. If such actions were to constitute a new normal, then before long other states with drone capabilities could resort to similar actions. Drone technology is now commonplace. There is a strong case to outlaw the use of drones by states for assassinations or eliminating individuals or groups deemed prejudicial to their interests.

Matrix Media: What are the implications of this neo-normal for Pakistan?

Salman Bashir: Pakistan should along with other like-minded states work for outlawing the use or threat of use of weapons such as drones or missiles for targeted assassination in situations of no declared wars or armed conflicts. The proliferation of such incidents carry serious consequences for regional security. Even if this were to be construed as the new normal, Pakistan while developing or acquiring requisite technology should strongly desist from its use for the cold-blooded murder of individuals or groups deemed inimical to state interests.

Matrix Media: Does it expose Pakistan to similar actions by India? Will India dare to do something like what happened to Solemani?

Salman Bashir: India with its great power pretensions has the unique distinction of trying to emulate the US. It believes that the short cut to ambition is imitation. Thus the Indian government has on several occasions threatened to take unilateral action against individuals or groups in Pakistan that it considers as indulging in acts of terrorism. The February 2019 strike by aircraft at Balakot are a case in point. Of course, these were unsuccessful and cost India a lot in terms of its military reputation. Pakistan will not allow India to get away with such actions. The dangers of serious military escalation are inherent in such situations. Pakistan will not allow such actions by India to go unpunished. The response will be forthright and effective. Pakistan’s own technological capabilities are well demonstrated.

Matrix Media: Or is China the shield for Pakistan in such situations?

Salman Bashir:China is a trusted friend of Pakistan. We are grateful to China for its steadfast support for Pakistan’s security and development. China has also supported Pakistan at the United Nations. Both Pakistan and China are law abiding states and work together at international forums to uphold law and justice. It is primarily in this diplomatic field that we could expect strong support and cooperation from China.

Matrix Media: What the neonormal means for Kashmir? Is August 5 Indian action in Kashmir fate accompli as NOT A SINGLE COUNTRY HAS DEMANDED REVERSAL OF THAT ACTION?



image title 7

Salman Bashir: The annexation of Kashmir by India is not the new normal. This attempted annexation will have to be reversed. It is true that the international community particularly major powers except China seem to have acquiesced. But in the broader span of time, such evidently self-serving attempts at appeasing India will prove wrong and are self-damaging. Nature has a strange way of vindicating wrongs and injustices. History will not allow the horrors of foreign occupation to stand. We already are seeing the excesses of the BJP government catch up. Indian society is all roiled up in contradictions and conflicts within. All of this has consequences. An unjust societal order cannot last indefinitely. This is evident from human history. So will it be for Kashmir and India?

-Contributed by Matrix Media, Pakistan –