HONG KONG: Hong Kong's acting leader emphasised the importance of law and order during the government's final executive meeting of the year on Tuesday (Jan 21), one day after Moody's downgraded the territory's credit rating for its inability to tackle ongoing political upheaval.



"The government must be determined to maintain the rule of law and stop riots," acting Chief Executive Matthew Cheung (pic) told government secretaries at their final weekly meeting before the Chinese New Year on Saturday. "This is our top priority."



Cheung, who was standing in for Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam after she departed for the the World Economic Forum in Davos, had earlier "rejected" Moody's credit rating downgrade for the Chinese territory to Aa3 from Aa2.



Cheung said that the assessment had "ignored the advantages of Hong Kong," and that it was wrong to look at the current situation in the city from a purely political perspective.



"In terms of doing business, Hong Kong is arguably one of the most attractive places in the world. We have adhered to the 'One country, two systems' despite the unrest," Cheung told the meeting.



The news of the downgrade came after another weekend of violence that saw the second legal assembly of 2020 prematurely shut down by police amid scenes of tear gas, chaos and violence.



Moody's investment rating could damage Hong Kong's long-term economic reputation and destabilize the city's financial institutions.



The assessment said the rationale behind the downgrade was an ineffective response by Hong Kong's executive and legislative branches of government to recent unrest, indicating "weaker institutions and governance strength than Moody's [had] previously assessed."



At the same time, the agency also returned the city's outlook to "stable," having downgraded it to "negative" in September, showing a modicum of confidence in the city's ability to maintain its seasoned financial strength.



"We have upheld the One Country, Two Systems principle despite the seven months of unrest. When it comes to governance, we also rolled out a lot of livelihood initiatives, such as the 10 relief measures announced last week. These all show that we do have the will to govern," Cheung asserted.



However, Moody's assessment concluded that the Hong Kong government's reponse to political demands and concerns by the population were "insufficient."



Hong Kong has seen demonstrations and unrest since June, when anti-government protests broke out over a now-withdrawn extradition bill widely seen as a threat to the city’s autonomy from mainland China.



The political situation in the former British colony has captured international attention despite calls by China for "foreigners" to keep out of its internal affairs.



In November's District Council elections, the pro-democracy camp saw a landslide victory, claiming 17 out of Hong Kong 18 districts and 392 out of 452 seats, leaving just 60 remaining seats to pro-establishment rivals.



"There has been lack of clarity on what conclusions the government draws and what actions it will take in response to the District Council elections," Moody's assessment said.



Many of the newly elected representatives were students, blue-collar workers and professionals.



The beginning of 2020 kicked off with Beijing appointing Luo Huining as director of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in a fresh attempt to bring the political strife to an end.



Luo appealed Hong Kongers to "Cherish Hong Kong" by making the best use of its "One country, two systems," but as the first week of Chinese New Year preparations are hindered by continued clashes following protests around the city, a solution still seems far off from the horizon. - dpa/Asian News Network

Article type: free User access status: