We’re still waiting.

That was the message that a sober group of officials delivered before a phalanx of cameras Wednesday at the San Diego County administration building on the question of test results for the single suspected case of novel coronavirus in the region.

Though specimens were sent to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control lab in Atlanta on Sunday, the nation’s largest public health agency still has not called to answer the simple question on everyone’s mind: Is coronavirus here or isn’t it?

Why hasn’t the CDC yet returned the results? Dr. Eric McDonald, medical director of the county’s epidemiology and immunization branch, said that while his agency hasn’t received a clear answer, it stands to reason that the crush of requests for testing, which can presently only be performed by the CDC’s public health lab in Atlanta, has forced the feds into triage mode.

Advertisement

“We presume that they’re testing the ones that are most likely to be positive first,” McDonald said.

He added that the single suspected patient in San Diego County, whose personal details have not been shared with the public, appears to be doing just fine.

“The person is doing very well, without symptoms currently, on home isolation awaiting test results from the CDC,” McDonald said.

The CDC also recently announced that it is implementing enhanced screening protocols at American ports of entry, and a CDC spokesman said San Diego and El Paso border crossings are directly affected. It was not clear Wednesday exactly how screening procedures have been changed, though a CDC physician said Wednesday that border officials, who are already routinely asking about the presence of infectious disease, are now simply including coronavirus in their regular routines.

Advertisement

But none of that has been of much comfort to an increasingly edgy public besieged round-the-clock with news of rising death tolls, thousands of infections and millions quarantined a world away in China. Though there have been only two cases confirmed in California so far — one each in Orange and Los Angeles counties — local health providers report that their phone banks have, in some cases, really started lighting up since county officials first confirmed late Monday that San Diego does, indeed, have one suspected case on the books.

A survey Wednesday of local health systems showed that Kaiser Permanente and Scripps Health facilities were experiencing increased numbers of patient inquiries about whether symptoms might be related to possible coronavirus infection. Sharp HealthCare and Palomar Health in North County did not report significant increases in public interest.

Parents of young kids seem to be the group most concerned about coronavirus at the moment. Dr. John Bradley, an infectious disease specialist at Rady Children’s Hospital, said calls started flooding in Tuesday from parents concerned their child had been exposed. The problem, the physician noted, is that coronavirus symptoms such as fever and cough are the exact same ones caused by other much more common viral infections such as the flu.

“It’s one of those things where a cautious parent, every time they’re at a store or a park or wherever they may be, and they see a child sneezing and looking a bit sick, they’re going to be afraid that their own child has been exposed to coronavirus,” Bradley said.

Most parents he has spoken to, Bradley added, are forgetting the most important factor that the CDC has associated with coronavirus infection risk: Recent travel to China, particularly Wuhan province where the first cases appeared.

“If your kids are not in contact with people who have traveled to China, you don’t need to worry, and that covers 99 percent of people out there,” Bradley said, adding that there is no evidence of the novel strain of the coronavirus spreading from person to person in the U.S.

There is also some misinformation making its way through the community, McDonald added. Some who test positive for the common cold are leaving doctors offices under the mistaken impression that they just tested positive for coronavirus since the symptoms can be very similar.

“We want to be very clear that the only test that is available for this specific virus is at the CDC,” McDonald said. “Those local tests for coronavirus are (actually) for the common cold.”

Advertisement

There is also, Bradley said, an outsize concern that coronavirus infection would be some sort of automatic death sentence. Nothing, he said, could be further from the truth. Just like the flu, and other viral infections, coronavirus causes inflammation in the lungs that can eventually cause pneumonia.

But that doesn’t mean that healthy people are likely to suffer severe health consequences if they do get infected. According to the World Health Organization, 132 people in China died of coronavirus infection as of Wednesday and nearly 6,000 were infected, yielding a mortality rate of about 2 percent.

“That’s similar to what you would see in a bad influenza year,” Bradley said, adding that, for the most part, reports out of China have indicated that it has been older people with other existing health problems that have died or been hospitalized.

Were there to be additional cases detected, the doctor said, Rady could use the same infectious disease protocols that were highlighted in 2014 when the public health scare of the moment was Ebola virus. Rady is one facility in the region capable of turning an entire ward into a “negative pressure” treatment pod capable of keeping airborne viruses from spreading throughout a health facility.

But that would be a rare situation unless a very large number of people in the U.S. became infected.

“Most cases of even this novel coronavirus in healthy people you would expect to resolve without the need for hospitalization,” Bradley said.

That has definitely been the case in China where, according to the WHO, only 1,239 of the 5,997 confirmed cases have been deemed “severe.”

So what, then, is a concerned public to do about coronavirus?

Advertisement

McDonald said that the same preventive measures recommended for the flu work for this pathogen: Cover coughs and sneezes, stay home if you’re sick and stay away from sick people.

