Sign up to FREE email alerts from Mirror - daily news Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

Health officials around the world are on high alert as a new disease in China has infected over 400 people, and killed nine.

A new coronavirus from the same family as SARS has been identified by scientists, and authorities in China are working hard to contain the outbreak.

It is believed to have originated in a wholesale seafood market in the city of Wuhan, with the first cases reported in December 2019.

It is feared that the spread of the virus will accelerate this weekend, with millions of people travelling to celebrate Chinese New Year.

Here's everything we know about the new coronavirus so far:

What is coronavirus?

Coronaviruses are a group of viruses that cause respiratory infections. There are seven known strains that can infect humans, including the new virus detected in China.

They range in how serious they are, with some causing a common cold, and others causing pneumonia.

To date, the most famous coronavirus is the SARS virus, which has a mortality rate of between 9% and 50%, depending on the age of the patient.

Under a microscope, coronaviruses have a crown shape, which is where they get their name - 'corona' means crown in Latin.

What are the symptoms of the China coronavirus?

Health officials in China have reported that early symptoms of the new coronavirus include a high fever, shortness of breath, coughing and tightness of the chest.

It causes viral pneumonia, and in severe cases it has led to kidney failure and death.

People with weakened immune systems, babies and the elderly are particularly susceptible to coronaviruses.

Is it contagious?

While authorities initially believed that every single case of the new coronavirus was linked to the seafood market in Wuhan, China's National Health Commission has now confirmed that the disease can spread from person to person.

(Image: MARK R CRISTINO/EPA-EFE/REX)

At least two people have caught the new coronavirus from family members, and it's believed that health workers have also been infected.

Measures are being taken to stop the new coronavirus from spreading further afield.

Professor Allen Cheng, from Monash University’s Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, explained: "The Chinese government are clearly taking this very seriously, shutting down several cities with a combined population of more than 20 million during the Lunar New Year.

"At the moment, most indications are that this virus isn't quite as infectious as SARS, but data are still emerging and this assessment may change."

Coronaviruses are typically spread through the air, with infected people coughing or sneezing, or by close personal contact, such as shaking hands.

It's also possible to be infected by touching an object or surface with the virus on it, and then touching your mouth, nose or eyes before washing your hands.

Is it fatal?

So far nine people are reported to have died of the coronavirus, although most are thought to have had pre-existing medical conditions.

Over 400 have been infected.

Is there a treatment for coronavirus?

As the coronavirus is a virus, there is no treatment.

Patients can be given pain medication to relieve the symptoms, but the virus will not respond to antibiotics.

How far has coronavirus spread?

There are confirmed cases of the new coronavirus in Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the USA, all involving patients who have recently travelled to China.

Professor Cheng said: "The next few weeks are going to be crucial in determining whether this is under control. I expect we will see many reports of 'suspected' cases that turn out to have other respiratory viral infections such as the flu (as we are in the middle of the northern hemisphere influenza season)."

Is there coronavirus in the UK?

There have not been any cases of the new coronavirus in the UK, or the rest of Europe.

Heathrow Airport has set up screening for passengers arriving from Wuhan, the epicentre of the disease, and the NHS are on high alert.