© Provided by Mercury News A team in white biohazard suits watch as some of the approximately 200 passengers walk to waiting buses upon arriving on a charter flight from Wuhan, China, after landing at March Air Reserve Base near Riverside Wednesday morning Jan. 29, 2020. The flight originated from the area where the coronavirus outbreak started. All the passengers will be held in quarantine for an unknown duration. (File photo by Will Lester, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin/SCNG)

It seemed just a matter of time.

A Santa Clara County man who recently traveled from Wuhan, China, has been diagnosed with a new coronavirus that is spreading globally, sickening nearly 10,000 people in 20 nations.

The first confirmed case in the Bay Area heightens fears that more is to come.

As health authorities around the world race to prevent a pandemic, U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar on Friday declared the outbreak a public health emergency and ordered a mandatory two-week quarantine of any American returning to the U.S. from China’s affected area.

He also barred entry to the U.S. by all foreign nationals who visited mainland China within the past 14 days. And Americans returning to the United States from other parts of China will face enhanced screening and a “self-quarantine,” such as voluntary isolation, of up to 14 days.

Several Bay Area companies already have suspended travel to China, and some airlines, including Delta, United and American, announced that they are as well.

The steps follow new evidence that people may be contagious before they show symptoms. If confirmed, this finding suggests that isolation and quarantine of sick patients may not be enough to stop the spread of the disease.

To reduce risk, nearly 200 embassy staffers and their families evacuated earlier this week from Wuhan to Riverside County’s March Air Reserve Base were placed on a 14-day quarantine Friday — the first such action in more than 50 years. Initially, they were to be confined for 72 hours.

The unidentified Santa Clara man represents the third case in California and the seventh case in the U.S. He became ill after traveling to Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak. California’s other cases are in Los Angeles and Orange County.

The man was never hospitalized, and the risk to the general public remains low, said Dr. Sara Cody, health officer for Santa Clara County. He became sick after his return, via Shanghai and San Jose International Airport, on Jan. 24 and isolated himself at home, with family members, except for two visits to seek medical care. His case is mild, and he is being treated in isolation at home.

“We do not have evidence to suggest that the novel coronavirus is circulating in the Bay Area, Santa Clara County or Northern California,” said Cody. The county is now tracking and testing any of his known contacts.

America’s federal quarantine order — last issued in the 1960s to contain a suspected smallpox case — follows a state health department order issued Thursday after officials say one person tried to leave the Riverside base.

“While we recognize that this is an unprecedented action, we are facing an unprecedented health threat,” said Dr. Nancy Messonnier, director of the CDC’s National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases. “This legal order is part of an aggressive public health response to prevent community spread of this novel virus.”

The quarantine was issued under statutory authority of the Department of Health and Human Services. Breaking a federal quarantine order is punishable by fines and imprisonment. Coronavirus now joins a short list of other lethal communicable diseases — such as cholera, diphtheria, plague, smallpox, yellow fever and Ebola — that are authorized for quarantine.

The passengers are under temporary isolation in two buildings that are part of The March Inn near the base’s parade field, said Linda E. Welz, a spokeswoman for the base. The area has been cordoned off and is being monitored by security and medical personnel, she said. One person who sought to leave has joined others for the duration of a 14-day incubation period.

All 195 passengers have been tested for the virus, but not every test result is back.

But a negative result on the test does not mean a person is out of danger, said Messonnier. The CDC does not want passengers to unknowingly infect others after leaving Riverside.

Ominously, people without symptoms appear to be able to spread the virus, according to research in Thursday’s New England Journal of Medicine. Scientists report that a woman from Shanghai had no symptoms while on a January business trip in Germany and did not become sick until her flight home to China. But a German man who had meetings with the woman became sick — and he transmitted the illness to two other Germans.

Asymptomatic patients are never the major drivers of an epidemic, according to Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

But it could complicate efforts to contain the virus. If confirmed, coronavirus would not be unique in this ability; while some illnesses are contagious only after people show symptoms, others, like the flu, can be spread a day or two before illness.

The State Department employees at the base are being closely monitored, including temperature checks and observation for respiratory symptoms. If someone shows symptoms, medical care will be readily available, said Dr. Martin Cetron, director of the CDC’s Division of Global Migration and Quarantine.

“These American citizens clearly want to do the right thing,” he said.

The Department of State plans to repatriate additional U.S. citizens from Wuhan. The CDC is working to determine how those travelers will be processed upon their return.

The Santa Clara County man is voluntarily complying with isolation recommendations, and his family members are being tested, said Cody.

“We were lucky in this case — the contact list was short,” she said.

“This news is not unexpected,” added Cody. “Santa Clara County has the largest population in the Bay Area, and many of our residents travel for both personal and business reasons.”

Related Articles

“We understand that this news may be concerning, but based on what we know today, the risk to residents of our community remains low,” she said. “This one case does not change our risk.”

The Daily Bulletin contributed to this report.

New Entry Restrictions:

Beginning 2 p.m. PST, Sunday, February 2, federal officials will implement temporary measures that restrict access to U.S. to detect and contain the coronavirus:

Any U.S. citizen returning to the U.S. who has been in Hubei Province in the previous 14 days will be subject to up to 14 days of mandatory quarantine to ensure they’re provided proper medical care and health screening.

Any U.S. citizen returning to the U.S. who has been in the rest of mainland China within the previous 14 days will undergo proactive entry health screening at a select number of ports of entry and up to 14 days of monitored self-quarantine to ensure they have not contracted the virus and do not pose a public health risk.

Foreign nationals, other than immediate family of U.S. citizens and permanent residents, who have traveled to China within the last 14 days will be denied entry into the U.S.

Source: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services