© Kuang Biao An illustration of Li Wenliang shared on Weibo, a Chinese social media platform.

As outrage grows in China over the death of a whistleblower doctor, Chinese social media users are accusing the country’s communist government of a cover up .

Doctor Li Wenliang, a 34-year-old ophthalmologist, raised the alarm in late December about the novel coronavirus , long before Chinese health authorities disclosed its full threat. When he did so, it has emerged, he was silenced by police.

The doctor was reprimanded for his views, and made to sign a letter that said he “was making false comments.” Soon after, however, the outbreak had claimed dozens of lives, and China began containment efforts.

Li died in Wuhan Central Hospital Friday at 2:58 a.m. local time, from the same virus he had raised concerns about.

On the Chinese microblogging site Weibo Friday, the top two trending hashtags were “Wuhan government owes Dr. Li Wenliang an apology” and “We want freedom of speech,” the BBC reported .

The hashtags were quickly censored by the government, and a flood of messages of outrage towards the government over Li’s death were scrubbed from the platform.

Authorities moved quickly to delete any posts that hinted at protest, for fear that the uproar would spill onto the streets, the Guardian reported.

One now-deleted WeChat post said: “I hope one day we can stand on the street holding Li Wenliang’s picture.”

“Good people don’t live long, but evil lives for a thousand years,” read another post mourning Li’s death.

© ANTHONY WALLACE/AFP via Getty Images People attend a vigil in Hong Kong on Feb. 7, 2020 for novel coronavirus whistleblowing doctor Li Wenliang (pictured C), 34.

Now, many users are using the hashtag “Can you manage, do you understand?” — a reference to the letter Dr. Li was forced to sign when authorities accused him of disrupting “social order,” according the BBC.

Though the comments hold back from outright naming Li, they demonstrate the escalating anger towards the government.

“Do not forget how you feel now. Do not forget this anger. We must not let this happen again,” one commenter wrote on Weibo.

“The truth will always be treated as a rumour. How long are you going to lie? What else do you have to hide?” another wrote.

“If you are angry with what you see, stand up,” one wrote. “To the young people of this generation, the power of change is with you.”

© STR/AFP via Getty Images A photo of the late ophthalmologist Li Wenliang is seen with flower bouquets at the Houhu Branch of Wuhan Central Hospital in Wuhan in China’s central Hubei province on Feb. 7, 2020.

The government mouthpiece, The People’s Daily, put out an article Friday saying China has entered a critical stage of epidemic prevention work. “The country needs solidarity more than ever to jointly win a battle that it cannot lose, so that its people can be protected against disaster and patients around the country can return to health.”

However, in what seemed to be a cover-up of Li’s death, state media put out conflicting announcements of his death, first reporting it, then saying he was alive before reporting his death again.

As news spread of his death, images of Li saturated Chinese social media: Li on a hospital bed, wearing a mask; a pencil sketch of the doctor; a photo of the letter he war forced to sign.

People even posted pictures of themselves wearing masks with the words, “I don’t understand.”

Despite government censorship, some publications demanded freedom of speech.

© LI WENLIANG/Social Media/AFP via Getty Images This combination Chinese coronavirus whistleblowing doctor Li Wenliang whose death was confirmed on Feb. 7 at the Wuhan Central Hospital, China.

A Beijing financial publication, Caixin, posted a black-and-white photo of Li, the Guardian reported, with the title, “A healthy society shouldn’t have just just one voice: Novel Coronavirus whistleblower Li Wenliang dies.”

The state-affiliated Economic Observer posted to Weibo, “Dr. Li is telling us (through his death) what kind of future we will face if we lose the ability to express ourselves. In the eyes of the people, Dr. Li was the hero who bravely told the truth,” the post said. “Wuhan (authorities) should vindicate them and pursue those who abused their powers to suppress the ‘rumour mongers.'”

With an uncontrollable, growing unrest towards the government over Li, China’s authorities said a team would be dispatched to investigate “issues related to Dr. Li Wenliang that were reported by the public,” the New York Times reported , but few details were given.

With one of the popular hashtags later censored by the Chinese government, one user on Weibo wrote, “I love my country deeply. But I don’t like the current system and the ruling style of my country. It covered my eyes, my ears and my mouth.”

An Alibaba executive wrote that he hopes China would legislate a whistleblower act, similar to that in the United States. “RIP. Our hero. Thank you,” Gao Xiaosong wrote.

As Chinese seethed, the death toll from the coronavirus has reached more than 630 and upwards of 31,000 people have been infected.