Evacuation is long overdue

Over 140 Thai students and workers are expected to be flown out of Wuhan, the epicentre of the novel coronavirus outbreak, in a long-overdue evacuation to Bangkok on Tuesday.

Deputy Prime Minister and Health Minister Anutin Charnvirakul on Monday assured that medical personnel will strictly follow the government's guidelines in dealing with the evacuees, among whom are 64 students -- with stringent screening ordered prior to flying and a 14-day mandatory quarantine period for evacuees upon reaching Thai soil.

The government is reportedly considering Sattahip naval base in Chon Buri province as a possible location to temporarily quarantine the evacuees.

Wuhan, the capital of China's Hubei province, has been locked down since Jan 23, as the virus continues to spread, claiming hundreds of lives.

Meanwhile, it appears Thai authorities were reluctant to even consider an evacuation, with Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha previously trying to soothe public anxiety by insisting that "no Thais wanted to leave" the locked-down city. Quite the opposite was true, as reports of food scarcity and trauma from isolation emerged.

Growing public pressure eventually forced the government to rethink its stance, and it ultimately rolled out a plan -- which was immediately put on hold, as the government was still "waiting for China's permission".

On one hand, this created the impression that those responsible simply didn't try hard enough. On the other hand, the long wait for approval brings into question the "close ties" that both countries like to boast about.

Japan and the United States were among the first countries to evacuate their citizens. Fellow Asean members Singapore, Myanmar and Malaysia managed to do it before Thailand.

Confusion reigned supreme as ministers scrambled to be the first to talk to the media, all the while disseminating wrong information. Last week, Deputy Prime Minister Prawit Wongsuwon expressed his confidence the evacuation could start as early as Feb 1. When it didn't happen, it intensified the public's frustrations as the number of deaths from the virus continued to rise.

As of now, the reason why Beijing took so long to green-light Thailand's evacuation flight (and why it chose to prioritise its "bigger friends" over its supposedly close partner) remains unknown.

What's clear is that the delay cost the Thai government dearly. Public confidence in the government has never nosedived quite so deeply in the past. The delay drove many Thais to think that Beijing isn't valuing the relationship despite significant pledges by the Prayut administration to buy military hardware, including the controversial plan to purchase submarines worth 36 billion baht.

The Thai public is upset that the Prayut administration obediently opted to "wait and see" instead of pushing harder for its own interests and they believe Thailand has zero bargaining power in its supposedly close relationship with China.

Tuesday's evacuation looks unlikely to be enough to undo the damage to the administration's popularity.

By giving Thailand the cold shoulder, Beijing has raised serious doubts over whether China was ever really a good friend to Thailand in the first place.