A man wearing a face mask lies dead on the pavement at ground zero of China's virus epidemic.

WARNING: DISTRESSING

Fresh photos taken on the streets of Wuhan reveal the confronting reality of the coronavirus crisis, with dead bodies pictured lying on the pavement.

The Chinese death toll from the outbreak has now reached 259 and nearly 11,800 people are believed to be infected.

The virus has also spread overseas, with cases being reported in more than 20 countries.

The pictures below, taken by an AFP photographer on January 30, shows officials in protective suits checking on an elderly man wearing a face mask who collapsed and died on a street near a hospital in Wuhan.

Soon after the photo was taken, an emergency vehicle arrived carrying police and medical staff in full-body protective suits.

The confronting image represents the extent of the crisis, which the government and health officials are struggling to contain.

American Jarred Evans, who was recently evacuated from the virus epicentre in Wuhan, told The Daily Telegraph the city now resembled a “movie” or a “nightmare” as a result of the lethal pandemic.

“When you’re there and there’s no transportation, no trains, no subways, no planes, the military is blocking off each and every aspect of the road … You think to yourself, like, ‘is this real?’ Is this a movie? Is this a nightmare?’,” he told the publication.

The once-bustling city has essentially ground to a halt, with deserted streets and empty shops and restaurants as residents and visitors desperately try to avoid infection.

Meanwhile, the Communist Party chief in the city at the centre of China’s coronavirus outbreak says he feels a sense of “guilt” over not taking measures earlier to contain the virus.

“Right now I’m in a state of guilt, remorse and self-reproach,” said Ma Guoqiang, the municipal Communist Party secretary for Wuhan.

“If strict control measures had been taken earlier, the result would have been better than now,” he told an interview with state broadcaster CCTV.

The outbreak that began in Wuhan, capital of China’s central province of Hubei, has so far killed more than 250 people, all in China.

The virus has affected more than 11,000 people worldwide, surpassing the total from the 2002-2003 SARS epidemic.

Earlier on Friday Wuhan mayor Zhou Xianwang said the task of containing and preventing the spread of the coronavirus outbreak in the city remains “severe and complex”.

Wuhan officials have been criticised online for withholding information about the infection until the end of last year, despite knowing about the new illness weeks earlier.

Wuhan and cities in surrounding Hubei province have been locked down since January 23, with blanket transport restrictions effectively trapping around 56 million people at home.

Ma said the restrictions should have been brought in at least 10 days earlier.

“I think if we had taken measures like this at the time, the epidemic may have been alleviated somewhat, and not got to the current situation,” he said.

CHINA SLAMS US FOR TRAVEL WARNING

It comes as American Airlines and Delta Air Lines suspended all flights to and from China on Friday.

Beijing sharply criticised the United States for warning American citizens to avoid China and for urging those already there to leave due to the coronavirus health emergency.

“Certain US officials’ words and actions are neither factual nor appropriate,” China’s foreign affairs ministry spokesman Hua Chunying said in a statement.

“Just as the WHO recommended against travel restrictions, the US rushed to go in the opposite way. Certainly not a gesture of goodwill.”

VIRUS SPREADS TO THE UK

Two people have tested positive for the coronavirus in the United Kingdom – Britain’s first cases since the deadly outbreak began in China last month.

Paramedics in hazmat suits spotted at York hotel after coronavirus cases Paramedics in hazmat suits have been seen in a Staycity Hotel where two Chinese tourists fell ill.

The two patients are related and were staying at a hotel in Yorkshire when they fell ill, according to local news reports.

“We can confirm that two patients in England, who are members of the same family, have tested positive for coronavirus,” the Chief Medical Officer for England, Chris Whitty, said in a statement on Friday morning (UK time).

Britons on Wuhan Repatriation Flight Land in UK A chartered repatriation aircraft from Wuhan carrying 83 British and 27 foreign nationals landed in the UK on January 31, according to a government press release. Passengers on board the aircraft, which touched down at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire, were then escorted to Arrowe Park Hospital on the Wirral, where they will be quarantined for two weeks, the BBC reported. 'We know how distressing the situation has been for those waiting to leave,' Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said in the government's press release. 'We have been working round the clock to clear the way for a safe departure. The welfare of those trapped and public safety have been our overriding priorities.' This footage shows the plane, a Wamos Air craft, landing at RAF Brize Norton. The press release said the flight would continue on to Spain after the UK stopover, at which point the EU nationals' home countries would 'take responsibility for them.' Credit: Ministry of Defence via Storyful

Mr Whitty added the patients were receiving specialist care, including “tried and tested infection control procedures to prevent further spread of the virus”.

“We have been preparing for UK cases of novel coronavirus and we have robust infection control measures in place,” he said.

The AFP news agency understands the pair had recently travelled to China.

They are now believed to be at a hospital in Newcastle, in northeast England, though health officials declined to confirm their location, citing patient confidentiality.

But guests at the same hotel have slammed the decision to keep the Staycity Hotel open as the two guests fell ill.

Authorities are currently tracking down guests who may have come into contact with the pair, who were dramatically evacuated from the venue by medics in hazmat suits several days ago.

Mother of one Michiela Sauders, who was staying at the hotel at the same time as the patients, told UK tabloid The Sun she was furious to have been put at risk.

“I’m angry we were not warned. I don’t want any risk of me catching coronavirus and passing it to my boy.

“We found out from Facebook and immediately decided to check out. I just cracked.”

“I was scared then and I am scared now.”

The news comes as a plane carrying evacuees from Wuhan was pictured arriving in the UK.

A convoy of emergency vehicles was also seen transporting the British nationals to Arrowe Park Hospital in Merseyside where they will remain in quarantine for two weeks.

Russia also reported its first two cases of coronavirus on Friday (Russian time).

Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova said two Chinese nationals in Russia’s Siberian regions of Zabaykalye and Tyumen had tested positive for the virus.

The two men are now in isolation and haven’t been in contact with anyone, the head of the country’s public health agency, Anna Popova, said.

The infections emerged just one day after Russia closed its land border with China and suspended most train traffic between the countries.

ALMOST 10000 PEOPLE INFECTED

The WHO declared the SARS-like virus an international public health emergency on Friday.

The declaration means there will be a greater focus on a global response, with WHO fearful of what could happen if the virus reaches countries ill-prepared to cope with high infection rates.

RELATED: Scary way coronavirus is spread

The epidemic has so far infected almost 10000 people and killed 213, according to China’s National Health Commission.

A growing number of cases have been reported in at least 19 other countries, including Australia.

Several countries have now tightened travel restrictions to China, including the United States, Japan and Iran.

Singapore said it was suspending entry to travellers with a recent history of travel to China and suspending visas for Chinese passport holders. The ban, effective on Saturday, will also apply to those transiting Singapore, a major travel hub.

Italy’s government decided to declare a state of emergency and stopped all air traffic with China after announcing its first cases, in two Chinese tourists.

The WHO has reported at least eight instances of human-to-human transmission in four countries: the United States, Germany, Japan and Vietnam. Thailand said on Friday it too had a case of human-to-human transmission.

Some airlines have stopped flying to mainland China, including Air France KLM SA, British Airways, Germany’s Lufthansa and Virgin Atlantic. Others have cut flights.

Several foreign governments evacuating citizens from Hubei are holding them in quarantine for the 14-day incubation period of the virus.

RELATED: Qantas evacuation flight leaving tonight

Australian citizens in China will likely be flown out of Wuhan on a Qantas passenger plane in the early hours of Monday morning.

The evacuees will be flown back to Darwin first before being transported on to Christmas Island in smaller aircraft, where they’ll spend 14 days in quarantine.

FACEBOOK CRACKDOWN

The social media giant has announced plans to reduce the spread of potentially dangerous misinformation related to the coronavirus which is circulating online.

Facebook has revealed it will now remove posts that are flagged by health authorities which include false information or those promoting conspiracy theories about the pandemic.

A particular focus will be those that discourage people from seeking medical treatment or make false claims about “cures”.

– With wires