Slideshow by photo services

(Bloomberg) -- Japan found an additional 41 coronavirus cases on a quarantined cruise ship, while the number of infections on China’s mainland climbed to more than 31,000.

Beijing ramped up efforts to contain the coronavirus that has claimed 636 lives in the country, while at the same time voicing strong objections as other countries place more restrictions on travelers.

A Chinese doctor who was initially sanctioned for warning about the deadly Wuhan outbreak in early January has died, stoking fresh anger online at the Communist Party-led government. Read the full story here.

Key Developments

China death toll at 636, an increase of 73, with 69 in Hubei provinceMainland cases at 31,161, with 22,112 in Hubei What You Need to Know About the Spreading Coronavirus: QuickTake Man vs. Microbe: We’re Not Ready for Next Global Virus Outbreak Terminal subscribers: Replay the TOPLive Q&A on risks to the economy

Bloomberg is tracking the outbreak on the terminal and online.

Japan to Form Emergency Spending Measures: Abe (11:45 a.m. HK)

Japan plans to put together emergency spending measures next week to address the coronavirus crisis, tapping budgeted reserves in response to the impact of the outbreak, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said in a video posted on his office’s website.

The government will pay attention to the effects of the virus outbreak on tourism and regional economies, Abe said.

China Travel Bans Leave Thousands Stranded (9:47 a.m. HK)

China’s coronavirus outbreak has triggered an unprecedented clampdown on travel to and from the world’s second-largest economy, leaving thousands stranded across the globe and dealing a major blow to the international aviation industry.

At least 14 countries and territories, from the U.S. to India and Hong Kong, have introduced some form of China-related travel restrictions. Airlines suspended 26% of scheduled services in and out of the country from Jan. 23 to Feb. 3, according to Cirium, an air-travel analysis firm.

Malaysia was among the latest to add restrictions, saying late Thursday it is extending its ban on Chinese travelers from Hubei to include those from other provinces under lockdown by the Chinese government.

Read the full story here.

Japan Finds 41 More Cases on Cruise Ship (9:12 a.m. HK)

Japan’s Health Ministry found an additional 41 cases of the novel coronavirus on a cruise ship quarantined off Yokohama, a sharp increase from the 20 cases previously discloses.

U.S. equity futures dipped alongside Treasury yields and the yen ticked higher as traders reacted to the jump in cases.

Of the 273 on the cruise ship tested, a total of 61 have tested positive, with one patient in serious condition. Japan is looking to expand its testing for infections among the some 3,700 passengers and crew, Health Minister Katsunobu Kato told reporters Friday.

The Diamond Princess was placed under quarantine this week before it reached Japan, and checks were conducted after a passenger from Hong Kong who had been on the ship tested positive for the virus.

More than 7,000 passengers and crew have been held in quarantine in Hong Kong and Japan as their cruises turned into confinement because of the coronavirus.

Virus Pushes Robots to the Frontlines (8:51 a.m. HK)

The coronavirus outbreak, which has pushed the Chinese medical community into overdrive, has also prompted the country’s hospitals to more quickly adopt robots as medical assistants.

Telepresence bots that allow remote video communication, patient health monitoring and safe delivery of medical goods are growing in number on hospital floors in urban China. They’re now acting as a go-between that helps curb the spread of the coronavirus.

Read the full story here.

Hubei Facing Hospital Staffing Shortage (8:28 a.m. HK)

Hubei, the province under siege from the epidemic, is struggling to keep up with more than 22,000 confirmed coronavirus cases. Hubei is still facing a shortage of about 2,250 doctors and nurses, the vice governor of Hubei, Yang Yunyan, was cited as saying in the official Hubei Daily on Thursday. That comes even as the central government had sent in 10,596 medical professionals to help fight the epidemic as of Feb. 5. Yang said retired doctors and nurses should be encouraged to return to work.

China’s Death Toll Climbs to 636 (8:11 a.m. HK)

China’s death toll from the coronavirus rose to 636 as of Feb. 6, according to the National Health Commission. The number of confirmed cases on the mainland climbed by more than 3,000 to 31,161.

Hubei province, the center of the coronavirus outbreak, reported 69 additional deaths. Hubei accounts for 618 of the fatalities in China. Total confirmed cases in Hubei are at 22,112.

Outside of mainland China, Hong Kong has reported one death, while the Philippines had a fatality last week.

Wynn Resorts Losing $2.5 Million a Day in Macau (7:11 a.m. HK)

Wynn Resorts Ltd. is losing about $2.5 million a day in Macau after the Chinese government ordered casinos there closed to deter the spread of the deadly coronavirus.

The company employs about 12,200 people in the region. Although the casinos were ordered closed for a 15-day period that started Feb. 5, Wynn Chief Executive Officer Matt Maddox said Thursday it was too early to predict when they would reopen.

Chinese Doctor Has Died, Hospital Says (3 p.m. NY)

Li Wenliang, the Chinese doctor who was one of the first to warn about the coronavirus in Wuhan, has died, according to the hospital where he worked.

The doctor’s status had been subject to hours of confusion after earlier reports of his death on Chinese social media were deleted and replaced by messages saying he was being treated.

“Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist at our hospital had unfortunately been infected when he worked on fighting against the coronavirus outbreak,” Wuhan Central Hospital said in a post on the Chinese social platform Weibo.

The hospital said he died at 2:58 a.m. in China “after all efforts to save him failed.”

Li was in his 30s, according to a report by the Chinese media outlet Caixin.

American Airlines Extends Flight Cancelations (12:11 p.m. NY)

American Airlines Holdings Inc. extended the suspension of flights to Hong Kong from Los Angeles through March 27, citing reduced demand. Service previously had been scheduled to resume Feb. 21. Flights to Hong Kong from Dallas-Fort Worth remain scheduled to resume Feb. 21.

The airline is one of the major U.S. carriers serving China.

Economic Impact Will Be Limited, Envoy Says (9:45 a.m. NY)

The impact of the coronavirus outbreak on the Chinese economy will be limited and short-term, the country’s envoy to the European Union, Zhang Ming, said in an interview. Smart investors shouldn’t lose confidence on the country’s prospects, the ambassador told Bloomberg TV.

The priority of the Chinese government is to contain the virus and save lives, Zhang said. Asked about any fallout from the outbreak to the China-U.S trade deal, he reiterated that any impact will be limited, though he did acknowledge that the virus will affect both the Chinese and the global economy.

Port City of Tianjin to Restrict Residents’ Movement (9:08 a.m. NY)

Tianjin, a Chinese port city of some 15.6 million people, said it will restrict movement in residential compounds citywide in an effort to slow the coronavirus’s spread there.

The city borders Beijing and has only reported 78 cases and one death so far, but authorities across China have taken drastic measures to slow the virus’s spread outside the center of the outbreak in Wuhan. There are more than 25,000 cases across China, concentrated mainly in Hubei province.

Tianjin authorities said that residential areas will check and register people who come into communities, limit the access of deliveries and food orders, and restrict entrances and exits, according to the state media People’s Daily.

The notice also calls for keeping track of people with electronic registration systems and enhancing management of rentals.

Wuhan Tells Residents to Report Body Temperature (8:35 a.m. NY)

The city of Wuhan told residents check their body temperature on a daily basis and report it to local health authorities, part of new steps to contain the coronavirus in the city of 11 million that’s the center of the outbreak.

The city is conducting door-to-door inspections as well, and will send someone to check on people displaying a fever, according to a notice posted by the provincial government. People with symptoms will be sent to a community health center for evaluation.

China Objects to Countries Imposing Travel Restrictions (5:39 p.m. HK)

Authorities in Beijing are growing increasingly angry and have registered “strong objections” with countries imposing harsh travel restrictions on visitors from China.

© Getty Images via Bloomberg Canada Unveils Coronavirus Quarantine Facility For Canadians Returning From China

A military personnel walks outside a hangar where Canadians from Wuhan will be processed in Trenton, Canada , Feb 6.

Photographer: Cole Burston/Getty Images

Nations are ignoring recommendations from the World Health Organization and the International Civil Aviation Organization, which have advised against canceling flight routes and limiting travel to affected nations, foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said.

Coronavirus Cluster Linked to Singapore Business Event (5:35 p.m. HK)

A Malaysian woman whose brother caught the coronavirus in Singapore also has the virus, widening a multinational cluster of cases linked to a meeting in the city-state.

The 40-year-old woman’s older brother was the first Malaysian to be diagnosed with the pneumonia-causing illness. He was among more than 100 people who had attended a business event at Singapore’s Grand Hyatt hotel.

--With assistance from Christopher Palmeri, Charlie Zhu, Isabel Reynolds, Kari Lindberg, Will Davies, K. Oanh Ha, Iain Marlow and Yoshiaki Nohara.

To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at mcortez@bloomberg.net

To contact the editors responsible for this story: Drew Armstrong at darmstrong17@bloomberg.net, Jeff Sutherland, Mark Schoifet

For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com

©2020 Bloomberg L.P.