The Philippines on Sunday reported the death of a Chinese man confirmed to have been afflicted with the 2019 novel coronavirus acute respiratory disease (2019-nCoV ARD), the first fatality outside of China.

The 44-year-old man arrived from Wuhan, China by way of Hong Kong on January 21, Health Secretary Francisco Duque 3rd said.

The man succumbed to severe pneumonia on Saturday, he added.





World Health Organization (WHO) Representative to the Philippines Rabindra Abeyasinghe, who joined Duque at a press briefing, said the man did not acquire the infection while in the Philippines, “but in the epicenter of the disease in Wuhan, where there are very large number of deaths.”

Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province in China, is considered the epicenter of the fast-spreading contagion.

The Department of Health (DoH) said the man had traveled with a 38-year-old woman, who became the first recorded nCoV patient in the Philippines.

The pair sought medical help on January 25 after the woman developed a mild cough while her companion experienced fever, cough and sore throat.

“The condition of the patient deteriorated within the last 24 hours, resulting in his demise,” said Duque.

The two visited Cebu City and Dumaguete City days before seeking treatment.

The woman is being kept in isolation at the San Lazaro Hospital in Manila, while the Health department is working with the Chinese Embassy to “ensure the dignified management of the remains [of the male Chinese], according to national and international standards,” Duque said.

So far, the DoH and Research Institute for Tropical Medicine (RITM) said 24 patients under investigation (PUIs) had tested negative for nCoV.

As of noon Saturday, the DoH reported five more PUIs, bringing the total to 36. Twenty-three of them have been admitted and isolated.

Ten patients have been discharged but kept under strict monitoring, and four PUIs are undergoing tests at RITM.

The Health department’s Epidemiology Bureau said it was doing contact tracing of passengers aboard the flights that the Chinese man and woman took, as well as of people in places where they had stayed and traveled to.

Meanwhile, in Dumaguete, authorities could not locate two Chinese students reported to have flu-like symptoms.

Bimbo Miraflor, public information officer of the Negros Oriental provincial government, told The Manila Times on Sunday that the two students from a school in Xiamen, China, told authorities they would go to Cebu City after their stay in Dumaguete.

He said the two were reported by the management of the hotel where they stayed as “persons under investigation.”

Miraflor noted that the Chinese students had “fever of 38 degree and up, [were] coughing and [had] body malaise.”

“First, there was a report that they were quarantined. However, when the DoH team checked them up, it found that quarantine was not implemented,” he said.

New city under lockdown

On Sunday China locked down a major city far away from Wuhan, as the death toll from the disease soared to 304.

The lockdown and the discovery of the first nCoV death outside China added to deepening concerns about the potential for the virus to spread, as more governments around the world closed their borders to people from China.

Since emerging out of Wuhan late last year, the coronavirus has infected nearly 14,500 people across China and reached 24 countries.

Many of the infections overseas have been of people who had traveled from Wuhan, an industrial hub of 11 million people, or surrounding areas of Hubei.

China has embarked on unprecedented efforts to contain the virus, which is believed to have jumped to humans from a Wuhan animal market and can be transmitted among people in a similar fashion to the flu.

Those efforts have included extraordinary quarantines in Wuhan and surrounding cities, with all transport routes out banned, effectively sealing of more than 50 million people.

But 10 days after locking down Wuhan, authorities on Sunday announced similar draconian curbs on people movement in Wenzhou, 800 kilometers away.

Wenzhou is a coastal city of 9 million people in Zhejiang province, part of the eastern industrial heartland that has powered China’s economic rise over recent decades.

Only one resident per household is allowed to go out every two days to buy necessities, and 46 highway toll stations had been closed, authorities announced.

The city had previously closed public places such as cinemas and museums and suspended public transport.

Zhejiang has 661 confirmed infections, with 265 of those in Wenzhou, according to Beijing.

This is the highest tally for any province in China after ground-zero Hubei.

Internationally, governments continued their efforts to erect virtual borders against the disease.

The United States, Australia, New Zealand and Israel have banned foreigners from visiting if they had been in China recently, and warned their own citizens from traveling there.

WITH EUGENE ADIONG AND AFP