Everyone returning to Beijing must self-isolate for two weeks to protect against coronavirus otherwise they will be punished, Chinese state media reported.

City authorities, quoted in the Beijing Daily newspaper, said anybody who refuses to quarantine themselves or follow official rules on containing the new coronavirus will be punished - although they did not specify how.

A notice from Beijing's virus prevention working group said: "From now on, all those who have returned to Beijing should stay at home or submit to group observation for 14 days after arriving.

Special report: how bad could the coronavirus outbreak get?

"Those who refuse to accept home or centralised observation and other prevention and control measures will be held accountable under law."

Anybody returning to the Chinese capital will have to submit travel plans to their community in advance, the notice said.

Advertisement

There was no specific mention of foreign visitors arriving from outside China, and how or whether the restrictions would apply to them.

Other major coronavirus updates:

A total of 1,384 people have died from COVID-19 , the disease caused by the virus - most in mainland China but one each in Hong Kong, the Philippines and Japan

, the disease caused by the virus - most in mainland China but one each in Hong Kong, the Philippines and Japan 64,460 cases have been confirmed since the virus started in mid-December in Wuhan, with 63,866 in mainland China, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and the World Health Organisation

There were 5,090 suspected new cases in Hubei province, central China, on Friday

The first case in Africa was confirmed on Friday after a "foreigner" tested positive in Egypt

Two British Labour MPs cancelled all engagements after they were among 250 people at the UK Bus Summit on 6 February which was also attended by a patient with COVID-19

cancelled all engagements after they were among 250 people at the UK Bus Summit on 6 February which was also attended by a patient with COVID-19 A North Sea oil rig worker was placed in isolation as he was tested for COVID-19 after returning from Thailand

A ninth person in the UK was confirmed as having the virus on Sunday after a Chinese woman who had flown from China walked into a London hospital's A&E - having arrived in an Uber taxi

hospital's A&E - having arrived in an Uber taxi All 2,257 passengers and crew on the MS Westerdam cruise ship were at last allowed off after Cambodia let them dock, having been stranded for two weeks after ports in Thailand, Japan, Taiwan, the Philippines and Guam turned them away over fears they would spread the new virus, despite none testing positive.

Image: Su, 28 (L) and Jia, 29, got married - wearing face masks - at a registry office on Valentine's Day in Shanghai

Image: Workers in protective suits register residents and take their temperatures on a housing estate in Wuhan

Beijing's announcement came as the World Health Organisation (WHO) said its investigation into the outbreak will start this weekend after the last of 12 WHO experts lands, and will focus on how the new coronavirus is spreading and the severity of COVID-19.

WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the joint mission with China will also seek more details on how, where and when the more than 1,700 healthworkers in China infected so far contracted COVID-19.

Six have died, according to Zeng Yixin, vice director of the National Health Commission.

:: Listen to the Daily podcast on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Spreaker

About 500 million people in China are affected by movement and travel restrictions, as more cities, including Beijing and Shanghai, this week imposed lockdowns in an attempt to halt the spread of COVID-19.

Last week President Xi Jinping warned top officials efforts to contain the virus had gone too far and were threatening the economy.

People returned from the Chinese New Year holiday on Monday, but cities remain empty, with Shanghai and Beijing's streets and subways largely deserted, with many shops and restaurants empty or shut.

Image: Passengers on the MS Westerdam waved their towels before disembarking in Cambodia

Image: Labour MPs Alex Sobel and Lilian Greenwood have cancelled their engagements after attending the UK Bus Summit

Wuhan, the city of 11 million people where the outbreak began, is under the most severe lockdown, with all public transport, taxis and ride-hailing services shut down.

Volunteer drivers are risking their own health by secretly helping to ferry medical staff and those in vital jobs to and from work after responding to requests on messaging groups.

Others are desperately trying to find accommodation for medical workers, many who have come from across China, in hotels that have offered their rooms.