Shen Wu Tan

Articles by Shen Wu Tan

Officials ramp up response as coronavirus spreads across U.S. The coronavirus reached a new milestone of 100,000 infections worldwide Friday as the U.S. and other countries grapple with more cases, prompting increased action from lawmakers at the state and federal levels. Published March 6, 2020 Shares

Colon and rectal cancers rise among younger adults Colon and rectal cancers are rising among younger adults, according to a study released Thursday. Published March 5, 2020 Shares

What we know about the coronavirus The World Health Organization says the risk of the coronavirus is "very high" as the mysterious illness spreads to about 60 countries, including the United States. Published February 28, 2020 Shares

CDC report finds more than 40% of U.S. adults are obese More than 40% of American adults are obese, a significant increase since the start of this century, and nearly 10% are severely so, federal health researchers said Thursday. Published February 27, 2020 Shares

Feds investigate E. coli illnesses linked to Jimmy John's The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Food and Drug Administration and state officials are investigating a multistate outbreak of E. coli infections linked to clover sprouts from Jimmy John's. Published February 27, 2020 Shares

'We simply don't have enough': Hospitals turn to temporary doctors to cover physician shortage A survey of health care facilities found that 85% had used temporary doctors in the past year to fill in gaps caused by a national shortage of physicians. Published February 25, 2020 Shares

First U.S. clinical trial of investigational drug to treat coronavirus underway Hospitalized patients sick with the coronavirus are undergoing the first clinical trial in the U.S. to test an experimental treatment for COVID-19 at the University of Nebraska Medical Center in Omaha, the National Institutes of Health announced Tuesday. Published February 25, 2020 Shares

Fast-food chains join meatless movement Fast-food chains are jumping aboard the meatless bandwagon, offering plant-based burgers, chicken and sausages as alternatives for those practicing Lenten sacrifice. Published February 24, 2020 Shares

CBD products could be taken off the shelves in the UK next year CBD products in the United Kingdom could be removed from shelves next year unless manufacturers apply for approval to keep their products on the market. Published February 21, 2020 Shares

Researchers caution against long-term antidepressant use: 'Never intended as a permanent solution' Health researchers are warning against using antidepressants long term, which can lead to physical dependence. Published February 21, 2020 Shares

Flu shot more effective this season, reduced visits to doctor by 45% overall, experts say Federal health officials say the flu vaccine is proving more effective this season than in some previous seasons, although more deaths and severe illnesses among children have been reported. Published February 20, 2020 Shares

French woman becomes first cancer patient to give birth by freezing, thawing and fertilizing her egg A French woman became the first cancer patient to give birth by freezing, thawing and fertilizing her immature eggs, researchers said in a study published this week. Published February 20, 2020 Shares

Dating app meetup crimes raise concerns about safety Recent reports about meetings arranged on dating apps turning into crimes have prompted police to issue warnings and users to question their safety. Published February 19, 2020 Shares

Rural children more likely to be diagnosed with developmental disabilities A new study shows that U.S. children in rural areas are more likely to be diagnosed with a developmental disability than children in urban areas, yet less likely to receive specialized treatment and services. Published February 19, 2020 Shares

U.S. woman tests positive for coronavirus as MS Westerdam ship movement in Cambodia on hold Movement of passengers and crew aboard the MS Westerdam cruise ship came to a halt after news about an 83-year-old American woman who was aboard the ship and flew from Cambodia to Malaysia tested positive for the coronavirus over the weekend. Published February 17, 2020 Shares

Coronavirus cases nearly double in U.S. after charter flights pick up American evacuees The number of people infected with the coronavirus in the U.S. nearly doubled Monday, as the second charter flight carrying American evacuees previously trapped on a Japanese cruise ship landed in Texas. Published February 17, 2020 Shares

Coronavirus less deadly than SARS, appears to be slowing, WHO says The Geneva-based World Health Organization on Monday gave some encouraging news about the rapidly spreading coronavirus, claiming its transmission appears to be slowing and that it does not seem as deadly as SARS. Published February 17, 2020 Shares

Air travelers' handwashing can decrease risk of contracting virus Researchers estimate that the impact of flu-like viruses, including the fast-spreading coronavirus, could shrink by 24% to 69% if travelers washed their hands properly at all airports. Published February 11, 2020 Shares

China's coronavirus surpasses death toll from SARS in grim milestone The death toll from China's new virus has exceeded that of the SARS epidemic almost two decades ago, prompting public health authorities and Capitol Hill lawmakers to call for a more urgent global response to the rapidly spreading disease with mysterious roots. Published February 10, 2020 Shares