The U.S. Center for Disease Control (CDC) has confirmed the second U.S. case of the deadly Wuhan coronavirus with a Chicago woman who recently returned from travels in Wuhan, China.

CDC officials confirmed the new case to CNBC on Friday. Around the country, 63 more people are reportedly being monitored for symptoms of the virus.

The CDC confirmed the first U.S. case of the deadly Wuhan coronavirus on Tuesday. A traveler who had returned to Snohomish County, Wash. from China, reported pneumonia symptoms to local health officials. The person in question, a male in his 30s, was confirmed as having the coronavirus and placed in medical confinement soon after.

The Washington man was described as being in a “very healthy” condition despite contracting the virus.

The virus has already killed some 26 people and infected at least 900 others worldwide. Numerous cities across China have also adopted quarantine measures.

- ADVERTISEMENT -



A student at Tennessee Tech is being held in medical isolation as health officials work to determine if he is to present the second confirmed case of coronavirus infection in to hit the U.S.

The Tennessee Department of Health and the university have not identified the student, but did confirm his medical confinement to The Tennessean. The university said “Health providers quickly recognized that the patient met the criteria for Coronavirus testing, but nothing has been confirmed.”

The Tenn. student’s recent travel had raised some concern and he reportedly showed some mild symptoms of the virus.

According to the New York Times, another student in Texas has also been placed in medical isolation for a suspected case of coronavirus. The student had recently travelled to Wuhan, China, at the epicenter of the recent outbreak. Health officials in Brazos County, Texas, said the student met the criteria for testing and they would promptly announce if test results came back positive for the coronavirus.

Officials at Texas A&M said the risk of infection to other students is low.

Other people around the country are reportedly being monitored. Public health officials determined up to 43 people had close contact with the Washington man within the recent days surrounding his diagnosis. Those people are now receiving daily medical check ups to monitor their health conditions.

Medical officials have been watchful for additional cases and many major airports have adopted screening measures to identify possible carriers of the virus.

Another incident on Wednesday night saw a passenger arriving at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) showing what was described as “disturbing symptoms” of coronavirus. The LAX traveller in question was arriving on a flight from Mexico City and the case has not yet been confirmed as an instance of coronavirus.

Cases have been identified in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.

In New Jersey, one suspected case of coronavirus has been cleared, according to public health officials who spoke to NJ.com.

Fourteen suspected cases in the United Kingdom were also tested, though they tested negative, according to the Guardian.

The CDC has identified the coronavirus as having many symptoms similar to the common cold, such as runny nose, headaches, cough, sore throat, fever and a general feeling of being unwell. In its list of symptoms, the CDC said most people contract forms of the coronavirus throughout their lives and the illness passes. More serious cases can, however, lead to lower-respiratory tract illnesses, such as pneumonia or bronchitis.