SWABI: National Assembly Speaker Asad Qaiser said here on Monday that most of the people in the country were not paying taxes that caused great damage to economy.

Addressing two different gatherings in Dara and Punjpir village, he said that it was moral obligations of people to pay taxes and play their role in the development of the country.

Mr Qaiser said that owing to wrong policies of the previous governments, Pakistan Steel Mills, Pakistan International Airlines and Wapda were in huge deficit and became burden on country’s economy instead of contributing to it.

He claimed that there was no money to pay salaries to public sector employees when Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) formed government after the general elections 2018. He said that government has stabilised the situation.

Mr Qaiser said that Saudi Arabia, China, Qatar and United Arab Emirates extended assistance to Pakistan in a highly perturbed economic scenario. “All this became possible due to dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Imran Khan,” he added.

He said that there was great gap between expenditures and resources in the country. He said that government was trying to reduce it and improve the country’s economy. “Without a stable economy, it is difficult to make progress in various fields,” he added.

He said that the opposition leaders, who were criticising the PTI government, had looted the country and shifted their wealth abroad. The weak economy forced the government to get help from International Monetary Fund, he said.

Mr Qaiser said that tough decisions were taken by the government to strengthen the economy. He said that government also adopted a mechanism to control the prices of essential commodities.

DRIVE: The administration has imposed Section 144 in the district and banned pillion riding and display of weapons till completion of the anti-polio drive.

Tight security measures were taken and all routes were being monitored to avoid any untoward incident.

DPO Imran Shahid said that a ban was also imposed on plying of the vehicles having no number plates.

Police also arrested 35 suspected people into custody. Officials said that they would be freed if proved innocent after investigation.

Published in Dawn, February 18th, 2020