The video will start in 8 Cancel

Sign up to FREE email alerts from Mirror - daily news Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

Signs that the coronavirus outbreak is spreading globally have emerged as Japan, Germany and Vietnam confirmed the first cases involving patients who didn't visit the epicentre in China.

A Japanese tour bus driver contracted the SARS-like virus while ferrying Chinese holidaymakers who were visiting from Wuhan earlier this month.

In the first confirmed case in Germany, a man living near Munich was infected there by a Chinese colleague visiting his workplace, a car parts supplier, from Shanghai.

The World Health Organisation said a case in Vietnam involved human-to-human transmission outside China.

Have you been affected by the coronavirus outbreak? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.

(Image: REUTERS)

The flu-like illness has killed at least 106 people and infected more than 4,500 others in China, with most of the cases in Wuhan and surrounding Hubei province.

It is thought that the virus was passed to humans late last month at a market in Wuhan that sold live animals, seafood and illegal wildlife.

Most cases reported around the world so far have involved patients who had recently visited Hubei.

No cases have been confirmed in Britain, although Public Health England has warned that the virus is likely already here.

More than 70 people in the UK have been tested after travelling from Wuhan and all the results have come back negative.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

Meanwhile, up to 500 Britons are stranded in Wuhan, one of a number of Chinese cities to be locked down in a desperate bid to prevent the illness from spreading.

Many have called on the UK Government to send a plane to rescue them.

The city of 11million has been called a "ghost town" after flights were grounded, public transport was halted and checkpoints were set on roads.

Residents and visitors have been told to remain in the city.

Britain is urgently exploring options to for its citizens to leave Wuhan and is finalising details of the plan, a spokesman for Prime Minister Boris Johnson said.

The Downing Street spokesman said: "The FCO [Foreign Office] is urgently exploring options for British nationals to leave Hubei province.

"Details are being finalised and the FCO will confirm these as soon as they can."

(Image: CHINE NOUVELLE/SIPA/REX)

In the case involving the Japanese bus driver, the man in his 60s, from Nara prefecture, had contact with visitors from Wuhan between January 8 and 16.

He began showing symptoms on January 14 and was hospitalised on Saturday before being diagnosed, according to Japanese health officials.

Japan has reported six confirmed cases and all but one involved patients who had recently been in Wuhan.

Germany declared its first confirmed case on Monday, saying a 33-year-old man in the town of Starnberg, near Munich, had tested positive.

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)

Officials said the man contracted it from a colleague visiting his workplace from Shanghai.

The man was in "good condition" and isolated in hospital.

German car parts supplier Webasto on Tuesday said an employee at its headquarters in Stockdorf, Bavaria, had become infected following the visit of an employee from China.

A day earlier it said an employee from Shanghai tested positive for the virus upon returning to China.

Hong Kong is suspending high-speed rail and ferry links with mainland China to prevent the killer bug from spreading.

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)

The number of flights to mainland China will be halved and personal travel permits for mainland Chinese to the city suspended.

The former British colony had eight confirmed infections, while 100 patients were in quarantine.

Coronavirus is a respiratory infection that is spread from person to person in droplets from coughs and sneezes.

Symptoms include fever, difficulty breathing or a cough, and the virus can cause pneumonia and other complications.

Chinese officials have said it can take up to two weeks for symptoms to show and carriers could spread the virus to others before they are diagnosed.

Outside of China there have now been 45 confirmed cases in 13 countries, with no deaths so far, World Health Organisation spokesman Christian Lindmeier said.

Professor David Fisman, of the University of Toronto, told AFP that the outbreak could last months.

He said: "The best-case scenario, you would have something... where we go through the spring into the summer, and then it dies down."