Source: Xinhua| 2020-02-23 19:23:23|Editor: Xiaoxia

Video Player Close

HARBIN, Feb. 23 (Xinhua) -- Putting on a face mask, checking the body temperature and disinfecting his wear, He Yingming completes these steps before he leaves home and goes to work in the morning.

"These prevention measures are necessary amid the novel coronavirus epidemic," said He, a resident in the township of Kertai in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province.

His family fell into poverty after he got sick a few years ago. The family relies on He's job at a fungus production company with a monthly income of 1,500 yuan (around 200 U.S. dollars).

Since the virus outbreak picked up speed in late January, many Chinese companies have suspended production to avoid risks of epidemic spread.

"I was worried about if the company could survive the hard time," He said. "I did not expect the company to resume operation so fast."

China has urged local governments to tailor support policies for poverty alleviation in regions and projects impacted by the novel coronavirus outbreak.

"The fungus production is a pillar industry for the village. It has resumed production in a timely manner with preferential policies support," said Guo Yu, head of Kertai Township.

In 2020, the company is expected to produce some 250,000 bags of mushrooms and generate a net income of 1 million yuan, which will increase income by 1,000 yuan, respectively, for 46 poor households.

Yu Shoulong, manager of a dairy farm in the county of Lindian, encountered sales problems caused by the epidemic.

"The local government helped us find a new sales channel. We now can sell 43 tonnes of milk each day," Yu said. The dairy farm brought an average income of 2,000 yuan for 567 poor households last year.

Liu Jie, a cattle farmer in the county, has shaken off poverty thanks to the favorable loan policies offered by the local government.

"I am not worried about the epidemic," said Liu. "The feeding stuff is sufficient. The village also provides various epidemic prevention supplies for us."

Liu volunteered in the epidemic control team of the village. He patrolled around the village for eight hours each day.

"I could not get rid of poverty without others' help," said Liu. "Now, it is time to do what I can to help others in return."