PETALING JAYA: Universiti Malaya (UM) is working towards preserving the legacy and history of Kuala Lumpur’s oldest Chinese temple.



The university’s Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences dean Prof Datuk Danny Wong said the research project aimed to examine the relationship between Sin Sze Si Ya Temple and the city’s Chinese pioneers with the development of Kuala Lumpur.



“The temple is the oldest surviving building in Kuala Lumpur and we want to investigate, using evidence-based research, how the temple has grown with the city over the past 155 years,” he said during the Exchange of Appointment Letter between the temple and the faculty yesterday.



Wong added that the project aimed to clear the air and accurately record facts on the Taoist temple’s history, as well as the history of the local Chinese community.



“For a long period of time, there have been different views on who founded, defended and rebuilt Kuala Lumpur and when,” said the temple’s Board Of Trustees chairman Datuk Hew Wee Tin.



“The temple’s board of trustees has invited researchers from the faculty to do an in-depth study on the truth of the matter in relation to the struggles and achievements of our forefathers concerning the history of the temple and Kuala Lumpur.”



He added that the project would take about two years to complete.



Hew also said the temple was built by Yap Ah Loy, a key figure in the formation of the nation’s capital, and is located in Jalan Tun HS Lee.



Wong said the faculty would assist in establishing a museum within the temple, especially on the historical materials and displays.



According to Hew, the museum “will showcase collections of antiques and materials of cultural and historical importance that will bring about a better understanding and appreciation of Chinese culture and heritage”.



The entire research project cost about RM128,000 and was being funded by the temple’s board, said Wong.



“More importantly, the project is yet another event where the Chinese community is engaging with a public university,” he said, adding that UM was a public university and belonged to all, not just the government.He described the collaboration as “an important honour to the university” and invited more people to contribute funds for the project.





Article type: free User access status: