A woman in China has been accused of trying to abduct a young boy from a tuition centre by posing as his mother.

Surveillance footage shows the woman walking up to the child, ordering him 'come home, quick' before dragging him by the hand.

Her suspicious behaviour was stopped by the centre's receptionist, who decided to intervene after seeing the boy deliberately avoiding the woman.

A woman, in white T-shirt, tries to drag a boy away from a tuition centre when a quick-thinking receptionist intervenes in Liuzhou, southern China's Guangxi Province, on January 8

The woman leaves the tuition centre in the Wanda Shopping Plaza after failing to take the boy

The incident took place on January 8 in the city of Liuzhou in southern China's Guangxi Province.

The woman's attempt was captured by a security camera at the Longmen National Studies Academy situated in the Wanda Shopping Plaza, according to reports.

In the footage, the suspect who was wearing a white T-shirt and black trousers entered the business and immediately asked a boy: 'What are you doing here? Why are you not going home?'

The boy who appeared to be waiting for his mother answered: 'You are not my mother.'

Undeterred, the woman carried on to urge the child: 'Come home, quick!'

When the boy stood up to avoid the woman, she grabbed him by his arm in an apparent bid to drag him away.

The incident took place on January 8 in Liuzhou (pictured), a city with four million people

The centre's receptionist, who was sitting across a desk from the boy, sensed that something was wrong.

The worker reached out to the boy and queried him: 'Is she your mother?'

After the boy answered no, the member of staff told him to stay away from the woman.

The suspect then left.

Management of the tuition centre immediately alerted their students's parents of the appearance of a suspected human trafficker, and urged them to take extra caution, according to Jiangsu TV which reported on the news last Saturday.

The centre informed the police the next day, the report said.

Upon investigation, police said that the 25-year-old suspect, known by her surname Lai, is a local resident.

Officers from the Chengnan Bureau of Liuzhou Public Security Bureau said that, according to Ms Lai's family, the suspect had 'behaved abnormally' due to 'emotional problems' and been treated in hospital.

The police did not specify what condition the suspect had, but stressing that her behaviour had not led to any children be trafficked.

The incident occurred just days before police in Yunnan rescued a two-year-old girl after she had been abducted. In the surveillance footage above, the suspect is seen carrying the child

Footage released by police also shows the suspect whisking the girl away with a tuk-tuk

According to Chinese news site Caijing, around 200,000 boys and girls are estimated to be missing every year in the country.

Among them, only 200, or 0.1 per cent, would be able to find their parents at some point of their lives.

The incident in Liuzhou occurred just days before police in the southern Chinese province of Yunnan rescued a two-year-old girl after she had been abducted by a suspected human trafficker on a street.

The abducted girl was rescued by police and reunited with her family (pictured) on Wednesday

The toddler, known by her surname Xin, was taken by force in the Yongfeng Town of Zhaotong city at around 3pm on January 14.

Footage released by police show an adult carrying a girl in her arms before whisking her away with a tuk-tuk.

The girl was rescued by police 26 hours later in a nearby village and reunited with her family the same day.

Police also released a video showing the child's devastated family members coming to the police station to pick her up Wednesday night.