California Rep. Adam Schiff. Screengrab

MANILA - A United States lawmaker on Friday cited the Philippines as among countries that look up to America as a nation where the rule of law prevails, as he pushed for the removal of US President Donald Trump.

In an impassioned speech Friday (Saturday morning in Manila), California Rep. Adam Schiff, a Democrat who is the lead House impeachment manager, mentioned victims of alleged extrajudicial killings in the Philippines in appealing for a "fair trial" for America.

He said nations where justice may be repressed have nowhere else to turn to if the US loses its stature as an indispensable nation, an apparent reference to the leadership of Trump, now facing trial for abuse of power.

"From their prison cells in Turkey, journalists look to us. From their internment camps in China, they look to us. From their cells in Egypt, those who gathered in Tahrir square for a better life look to us," Schiff said.

"From the Philippines, those that were the victims and their families of mass extrajudicial killing they look to us," he said, a reference to alleged victims of the drug war.

He said such nations "increasingly... don't recognize what they see" in America.

All over the world, those living under oppressive regimes look to us.



They look to us because we have a rule of law. Because in America, no one is above that law.



To my Senate colleagues, I implore you:



Give America a fair trial.



She's worth it. pic.twitter.com/FoPdno5Qy4 — Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) January 25, 2020

"It is a terrible tragedy for them and a worse tragedy for us," he said, adding that these countries would not turn to others like Russia, China or Europe "with all of these problems."

"They look to us because we are still the indispensable nation. They look to us because we have a rule of law. They look to us because no one is above that law," Schiff said.

He then called for a trial for America, saying this is what separates the US from repressive regimes.

"And so I ask you I implore you, give America a fair trial, give America a fair trial. She's worth it," he added.

More details to follow.