© Provided by The i

The SARS-like coronavirus, which has infected over 89,000 people, is wreaking havoc in China and more than 55 other countries, with over 3,000 people dead as a result of the outbreak.

© Provided by The i

The strain is causing concern due to its similarity to the virus which killed almost 800 people across China and Hong Kong between 2002 and 2003.

© Provided by The i

Read more:

China virus: Wuhan authorities cut off city's transport

The news will cause concern for Brits looking to travel to any of the affected areas.

Here's everything you need to know if you are planning on travelling to Japan:

What's the official advice?

"There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus," says the Foreign Office. "The virus originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province but cases have been confirmed in other parts of China and the region, including Japan.

"You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the local authorities."

As a preventative measure against the spread of coronavirus, the Immigration Services Agency of Japan announced that from 1 February 2020, unless there are exceptional circumstances the following people are not permitted to enter Japan:

foreign nationals who have been to Hubei province in the People’s Republic of China within 14 days prior to arrival foreign nationals who have a Chinese passport issued by Hubei province in the People’s Republic of China.

Some flights from Japan to mainland China have been suspended or cancelled; check with your travel provider for updates.

A notice for passengers from Wuhan, China displayed near a quarantine station at Narita (Photo: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Getty Images)

The Japanese authorities have also introduced a number of measures to tackle the outbreak.

What is the coronavirus?

a request for primary and secondary schools to close from 2 March until spring holidays at the end of March a request for organisations to postpone or cancel large-scale cultural and sporting events during an initial two-week period from 26 February immigration restrictions and enhanced quarantine procedures at entry points to Japan.

The virus is a new strain of coronavirus, which is in the same family as SARS and MERS (Middle East respiratory syndrome).

This particular strain originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, the largest city in central China.

A seafood market has been linked to the outbreak in Wuhan, with health authorities stating on Wednesday that some “environmental samples” taken from the market tested positive for the virus.

Aside from fish, the market also sold other live animals that included birds, rabbits and snakes.

The first suspected cases of the virus were reported at the end of last year on 31 December 2019 in Wuhan, but it has since been confirmed in other parts of China. Cases have also since been reported outside of China, including Thailand, Japan and South Korea.

Areas where cases of coronavirus have been confirmed so far include Beijing, Shanghai, Wuhan, Guangdong, Seoul (South Korea), Tokyo (Japan), Bangkok (Thailand), and the US.

More than 50 people in the UK suspected of contracting the virus have now been given a clean bill of health.

Symptoms of the coronavirus

(Photo: CHARLY TRIBALLEAU/AFP via Getty Images)

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) explaining they usually cause “mild to moderate upper-respiratory tract illnesses”, like the common cold.

Most people get infected with these viruses at some point during their lives, although they usually only last for a short period of time.

Symptoms of the virus may include:

runny nose headache cough sore throat fever a general feeling of being unwell

Human coronaviruses can sometimes cause lower-respiratory tract illnesses, such as pneumonia and bronchitis, or more severe diseases such as SARS.

However, this is more common in people with cardiopulmonary disease, people with weakened immune systems, infants and older adults.