The Wuhan government announced its decision to lock down the city at 2am that day, effective from 10 am. Nobody knew what the lock-down would mean and how long it would last. In those eight hours of uncertainty, anxiety and panic, hundreds of thousands of people rushed out of the city via whatever means they could find. There were nine million residents left.

At 10 am, the 121-year-old Wuhan railway station closed its doors. Wuhan cut off its airports, railways, roads, waterways and even mail. The city was isolated.

About 5km away, infectious disease doctor Zhao Lei at Wuhan Union Hospital was still sleeping. He was exhausted by the sudden surge of patients over the past month. Since late December, people with fevers and pneumonia-like symptoms had been flooding in, forcing the hospital to expand the fever clinic from one floor to almost the entire building. There could be as many as 900 fever patients in one day.

A medical worker attends to a patient in the intensive care unit at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital. Xinhua/AP

What’s more, a few nurses in the neurosurgery department had fevers too. They had all treated one patient, who had surgery on January 7. The 69-year-old patient started to have a fever four days after surgery, and his CT scan showed signs of lung infection. This patient was transferred to Zhao’s infectious disease department, but not before he infected a total of 14 medical staff. This case was cited by experts and officials as clear evidence of human-to-human transmission when the lockdown was imposed, and the patient was deemed the first identified super-spreader of the new coronavirus.

Beijing was deserted during the normally convivial Lunar New Year holiday, as people were encouraged to stay home. Medical experts say they think the coronavirus has an incubation period of as long as 14 days, so strict limits on movement for at least two weeks from the Wuhan lockdown will be a crucial measure for containing the disease.

Now China is fighting a war against the virus, which has cost the economy heavily and disrupted the lives of ordinary people, especially those in Wuhan. As the country gradually recovers from the shock and fear inspired by the virus, many people are asking why the virus crisis spread so quickly in Wuhan, and whether there was any chance of a better outcome.

Advertisement

“Shutting down the city was no surprise, as it is an effective way to prevent disease from spreading,” Zhao says.

But there was no precedent anywhere in the world for putting a city as big as Wuhan under complete quarantine. Over hundreds of years, Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province, has played a critical role in central China as an economic and transportation hub connecting major parts of the country via an extensive network of road, railway and water routes on the Yangtze River. During the Qing Dynasty, Wuhan was known as the “Thoroughfare to Nine Provinces”.

An exhausted medical worker rests in a chair in a Wuhan hospital. AP

For most of Wuhan’s residents, initially nothing seemed unusual, although word was circulating about a mysterious disease. As the quarantine order was announced and more timely information was published, they found themselves at the epicentre of a pandemic caused by novel coronavirus, or 2019-nCoV. Although the origin of the deadly virus hasn’t been confirmed beyond all doubt, it is believed to have spread from Wuhan to the rest of China and around the world.

Things moved quickly after the quarantine order. Three days after Wuhan cut itself off from the outside, it halted all public transport inside the city. In six days, almost all other cities in Hubei imposed similar lockdowns. By January 29, all of the 31 provincial-level regions in the Chinese mainland had enacted the highest-level emergency responses to the virus. More than 6000 medical workers have been dispatched from across the country to Wuhan.

But the measures have yet to stop the virus from spreading. Casualty numbers continued rising over the past week. As of Saturday, 11,821 coronavirus infections were confirmed across China and the death toll stood at 259. Hubei alone by then reported 7153 confirmed cases and 249 deaths, including 192 in Wuhan.

The virus has also spread globally, with 134 cases confirmed in 23 countries, spurring several countries to impose travel bans on China.

Advertisement

On Thursday, the World Health Organisation declared the coronavirus outbreak a global health emergency while emphasising its confidence in China’s capacity to control the outbreak. WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus praised China’s efforts to contain the outbreak, saying he had never seen a nation respond so aggressively to a disease.

Since the Wuhan lockdown, many major Chinese cities have sought to contain the virus by restricting transit or extending the Lunar New Year holidays. Streets in many cities, including Beijing, were deserted during the holiday, as people were encouraged to stay home.

Word had circulated online since late December that a mysterious pneumonia was spreading in Wuhan, reviving Chinese people’s painful memories of the 2003 SARS epidemic, which claimed nearly 800 lives.

On December 30, a document from Wuhan’s public health authority went viral on the internet, confirming that the city’s hospitals had received a rising number of patients who showed pneumonia-like symptoms. All the patients had contact with the South China Seafood Wholesale Market in downtown Wuhan, according to the document.

The likely source

Established in 2003, the 30,000-square-metre market accommodates more than 1000 merchants selling a wide range of farm products and seafood. The market supplies almost all the restaurants in Wuhan and neighbouring areas.

“Without the market, the whole catering industry in Wuhan would stop,” a vendor told Caixin.

Advertisement

It is widely believed that the market, which is home to a grey trade in wild animals, is where the virus started its journey around the world.

On December 31, one day after the city health officials’ warning, the Wuhan city government for the first time disclosed that 27 pneumonia cases had been confirmed in the city, including seven severe cases and two recoveries.

Masked Wuhan residents at a vegetable market in the city. Getty

On the same day, a team of public health experts from the National Health Commission arrived in Wuhan to investigate the mysterious disease. Meanwhile, epidemic prevention workers were sent to the seafood market for disinfection. “The market was closed, cleaned up, and the ‘crime scene’ was gone. How can we resolve the case without evidence?” said Guan Yi, director of the State Key Laboratory of Emerging Infectious Disease at the University of Hong Kong.

“Tracing the pathogen is a complicated process. We can’t just find an infected animal and determine that was the origin.”

The next morning, a notice posted at the South China Seafood Market ordered it to be closed for “environmental and sanitation rectification”. As vendors packed to leave, unease grew among them about a rumoured epidemic.

Exotic animals

“The seafood market has been known for its dirty environment for years,” says a resident living nearby. “There is always the smell of seafood and dead poultry.”

Advertisement

People familiar with the market know that it is not only a place to find a rich variety of seafood but also exotic wild animals sold by vendors in deep corners.

There have always been vendors “selling snakes, pheasants, giant salamanders, crocodiles and hares”, says a merchant at the market, adding that most of the wild-animal vendors were located in the western part of the market.

Trading certain wild animals, including live ones, is prohibited in China. Although market authorities conduct regular inspections and impose heavy fines on violators, sales of wild animals at the Wuhan market have continued throughout the past decade, vendors tell Caixin.

Workers put the finishing touches on Sunday to the Wuhan Huoshenshan Hospital, built in 10 days. Getty

According to research published on January 26 by the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 33 of 585 environmental samples extracted from the market tested positive for the virus. Of the positive samples, 93.9 per cent came from the western part of the market.

The CDC later reported that the new coronavirus was very likely passed from certain wild animals to humans at the market, and then evolved into human-to-human transmission.

While all eyes are on the seafood market, some experts say the situation may be more complicated. An article in the medical journal The Lancet says that while wild animals are the most likely source of the virus, there was more than one venue where it was passed to humans. The article, authored by doctors at Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital, says that only 27 of the first 41 patients diagnosed with the coronavirus infection in Wuhan had contact with the South China Seafood Market.

“Now it seems clear that [the] seafood market is not the only origin of the virus,” Cao Bin, one of the Lancet article's authors, has been quoted as saying by ScienceInsider, a publication of the 172-year-old American Association for the Advancement of Science. “But to be honest, we still do not know where the virus came from.”

Advertisement

Doctors on the front lines of epidemic outbreaks always sense the danger ahead.

Zhao Lei, who works in the infectious diseases department of Wuhan Union Hospital, says he received the first patient suspected of having the coronavirus infection in December. The patient’s pneumonia symptoms were quite unusual, and a CT scan showed shadows in his lungs, Zhao says. Although CT scan results are not the only reference for coronavirus diagnosis, they are a key indicator.

In the following days, patients with similar symptoms started to flood into the hospital, sometimes reaching 800 or 900 in one day, Zhao says. The hospital had to transfer more doctors and nurses to the fever clinic to deal with the influx of patients.

Several doctors raised concerns about a new strain of virus that showed stronger contagion and severity than normal respiratory infections, but they were confused by healthcare authorities’ hesitance to take measures, and by official statements declaring the disease to be controllable.

Whistleblowers

Li Yunhua, a radiologist at the Hubei Xinhua Hospital in Wuhan, says he first heard of patients with SARS-like symptoms in his hospital on December 30. That night, Li received messages from an online chat group of colleagues in several Wuhan hospitals warning of a new epidemic emerging in the city.

But Li says he felt a little relieved the next day when when the Wuhan health authority issued a public statement saying there were 27 confirmed pneumonia cases with no sign of human-to-human transmission. No medical worker had been infected, according to the statement.

Advertisement

A day later, Wuhan police said eight people had been punished for spreading rumours online, and the government reassured the public that there was “no obvious human-to-human infection” or “cases of medical staff being infected”.

What Li witnessed was arguably the most significant whistleblowing case in China’s medical history. The eight were mostly doctors who sent disease warnings in various chat groups on December 30. Among them was Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist in Wuhan, who shared in an instant messaging group chat the information the ophthalmology department in his hospital had put into isolation wards seven patients from a local seafood market who were diagnosed with severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).

The punishment of the eight “rumour spreaders” was widely reported by the police, local media and Wuhan health authorities. It silenced many doctors, Li says – although many of them sensed the danger, fear of “being called in by the police” kept them from speaking out.

The official level of infections seemed severe but not too worrying. However, the Wuhan government stopped updating the infection numbers for five days from January 5. It didn’t explain why, but the move coincided exactly with an annual meeting of provincial legislators. When briefings resumed on January 11, the government again said there were no medical worker infections or evidence of human-to-human transmission, while reporting that the number of infections had declined to 41.

I’ve never seen a virus grow so quickly. The speed is stunning. — Li Yunhua, a radiologist in Wuhan

“All doctors in our hospital knew it was not correct as it was so different from what we’d seen,” a doctor at a large public hospital in Wuhan says on condition of anonymity.

A radiologist at another public hospital has also raised doubts about the official statistics.

“On January 15, I found 50 cases [with lung infections shown on CT scan], but the health commission still reported 41, unchanged from January 11,” he said.

Advertisement

Li noticed an infection on January 6 in a CT scan of a respiratory doctor in his hospital. The doctor had never been to the South China Seafood Market, Li says, adding that officials at the hospital ordered doctors to not disclose any information to the public or the media.

Li was shocked by the surge of patients with lung infections. Since January 3, “it started at two to three per day and increased to four to five the next day, and then the number doubled every three to four days,” Li says. On January 18, Li read 86 CT scans with lung infections, and after that more than 100 cases every day.

Even the CT scan machine refused to work under the strain, and shut down regularly. The number of diagnosed infected lungs finally stopped rising in Li’s department — because the machine reached its maximum reading capacity.

“I’ve never seen a virus grow so quickly,” Li says. “The speed is stunning.”

Li’s colleague Liang Wudong underwent a CT scan January 16 after showing symptoms of fever. “The whole lungs were infected,” Li says. Liang was transferred to Jinyintan Hospital January 18 and died a week later.

Hospital tensions

As more and more medical staff grew sick, the atmosphere in the hospitals became tense. Li says that his hospital refused to disclose the fact that medical professionals were infected, and even came up with a strange requirement – CT scans of hospital staff could not be given to the staff concerned.

Caixin interviews with several doctors from different hospitals in Wuhan revealed that the practice was widespread. If a test came out positive, the person would be notified by phone.

Advertisement

It is still not clear who ordered the hospitals to hide the fact that medical staff were infected.

Outside its hospitals, Wuhan seemed to operate normally, warming up to embrace the most important holiday of the year. On January 19, a massive community dinner was held with 40,000 households eating together to celebrate the Lunar New Year.

It wasn’t until January 20 that the public became aware of the risk of human-to-human transmission. That day, Zhong Nanshan, a leading authority on respiratory health who came to national attention in his role fighting SARS, confirmed in a TV interview that the 14 medical workers infected in the neurosurgical department in Wuhan Union Hospital caught the virus from the super-spreader.

The next day, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission confirmed for the first time that 15 medical workers were infected. But sources said the actual number was much higher.

Li tells Caixin that as of January 29, more than 30 medical workers at his hospital were suspected of being infected.

On January 28, China’s Supreme Court reprimanded the Wuhan police for punishing the whistleblowers, saying that if the "rumour" had been more widely circulated, "we would be in a better position of disease control".

A research report jointly published by the CDC and the Hubei Disease Prevention and Control Centre on January 29 said evidence showed that the new coronavirus started passing from patients to their close contacts in mid-December.

Advertisement

The authors based their conclusions on a study of 425 infected people, including 15 medical workers.

The report's conclusions went viral on Chinese social media and prompted a wave of angry comments from internet users. Many were asking whether health officials from CDC withheld critical information from the public.

CDC issued a statement saying the paper’s conclusion ­­was made retrospectively.

Wuhan’s approach towards the disease suddenly switched from slow motion to decisive action.

Mayor Zhou Xianwang on January 29 acknowledged that the city had failed to disclose information on the coronavirus outbreak in a timely way, and offered his resignation over the lockdown.

However, the mayor said he was complying with rules for information disclosure under the country’s infectious disease prevention law.

According to Li, the radiologist, the chaos in hospitals was partly caused by the frequent policy changes by the city health authorities, which confused patients and institutions alike. But, more significantly, it reflected how the government and the public were stunned by the fast-spreading virus amid a dearth of information.

Advertisement

Li says he feels guilty about not disclosing the truth to the public earlier on: “Doctors and disease prevention officials have known how serious it is, but none dared to speak out. We should have taken the risk and spoken up.

“Now us medical workers work days and nights to race with death to save the patients. They are all human beings living in one city with us. They don’t deserve such pain.”

CAIXIN

Additional reporting: Qin Jianxing, Zhang Shulin, Peng Yanfeng, Di Ning, Yang Rui, Huang Yuxin and Huang Yanhai.