(Bloomberg) -- Chinese biotech firm InnoCare Pharma Ltd. has decided to postpone investor meetings to gauge demand for its Hong Kong initial public offering amid the novel coronavirus outbreak, according to people familiar with the matter.

InnoCare had originally planned to start gauging demand next week, said the people, declining to be identified as the information is private. The widening coronavirus outbreak, which has killed more than 200 and sickened thousands, caused the company to put the plan on hold, the people said. The company had been planning to raise around $250 million from the IPO, Bloomberg News reported last year. An external representative for the company declined to comment.

The decision, which could potentially delay the share sale, is another sign of the far-reaching impact of the coronavirus epidemic and does not bode well for other companies sitting in the pipeline. While Hong Kong enjoyed one of its busiest starts to the year in the last decade in terms of number of IPOs, a lot of the higher-profile names were expected only after the Lunar New Year holiday.

InnoCare, which develops treatments for cancer and autoimmune diseases, is among the first batch of deals being put on hold as a result of the virus outbreak. Trans-cab Services Pte., Singapore’s second-largest taxi company, has also halted work on its second attempt to list because of the virus.

The epidemic has the potential to disrupt IPOs as scores of flights to and from China have been canceled, making meetings between bankers, investors and company executives difficult. Chinese firms accounted for 66% of the total $101.8 billion that was raised in listings in Asia last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The disease’s incubation period of around 14 days has also caused banks to ask employees to work from home for two weeks if they’ve just visited mainland China.

READ MORE: Bankers Predict More Big Asia IPOs After Best Quarter Since 2010

The market sentiment doesn’t help either as stocks have been pummeled by concerns about the potential economic damage. Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index has dropped almost 6% since trading resumed after the Lunar New Year holiday. Trading in China will restart next week.

To contact the reporters on this story: Julia Fioretti in Hong Kong at jfioretti4@bloomberg.net;Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at vchan91@bloomberg.net

To contact the editors responsible for this story: Fion Li at fli59@bloomberg.net;Lianting Tu at ltu4@bloomberg.net

©2020 Bloomberg L.P.