coronavirus

Saint Petersburg

Singapore

Ministry of Health

World Health Organization

Michael Ryan

A Russian hospital on Friday filed a lawsuit against a woman for escaping herquarantine, complaining of being forcibly held and given inedible meals. The head doctor of the Botkin hospital intook the highly unusual action against Alla Ilyina to force her to return and undergo medical observation, the city’s court service said in a statement. A hearing has been scheduled for next Monday. According to Russian laws, leaving quarantine is punishable by a fine. The woman arrived from Hainan, a Chinese resort island popular with Russians, by plane on Feb 1. She was examined several times and eventually diagnosed with “acute virus illness” which did not rule out that this could be the new coronavirus, the local branch of the state health watchdog said. They confined her on Feb. 6 for 14 days but Ilyina fled from the hospital after two days, which “could lead to the spread of a dangerous infectious disease” in the city, the watchdog said.****Singapore reported nine more confirmed cases of COVID-19 on Friday, thesaid. Of them, six are linked to a cluster from the Grace Assembly of God church, director of medical services at the ministry Kenneth Mak said at a press conference. This brings the total number of novel coronavirus cases in Singapore to 67, with six patients in critical condition. Two more patients, case 30 and 45, have been discharged from hospital as of Friday, meaning 17 people have now fully recovered from the disease.****Hong Kong reported three more confirmed coronavirus infections on Friday, bringing the city’s total to 56, even as evidence emerged that some residents recently returned from mainland China were flouting the new mandatory home quarantine policy. One of the three new cases, a 41-year-old woman, attended a 29-person family dinner at a restaurant on January 26. At the dinner were five others since confirmed to have the virus, officials said.*****A passenger suspected of suffering from coronavirus on a SpiceJet Bangkok to Delhi flight on Thursday and quarantined on arrival has tested negative. “The passenger travelling on SpiceJet flight SG-88 to Delhi from Bangkok on Thursday, who had been suspected to have been infected with the coronavirus, has tested negative for the virus. The test results came Friday,” said a SpiceJet spokesperson. The passenger was quarantined on arrival at Delhi Airport. The Boeing 737 (VT-SYE) was disinfected before being released for its next flight. The crew had been quarantined at their homes to keep a check on their health. Airport officials say all other passengers were screened and none of them was found to be sick, hence they were allowed to go to the city.****The(WHO) has said that a spike of 14,000 coronavirus cases in China on Thursday was the result of new counting methods and did not represent a significant shift in the outbreak.“This increase that you’ve all seen in the last 24 hours is largely, in part, down to a change in how the cases are being reported,”, head of WHO’s health emergencies programme, told reporters.Ryan also said he expected members of a WHO-led international mission to China to arrive over the weekend.****Now, passengers flying in from Japan, South Korea, Thailand and Singapore to India will also be screened for coronavirus, apart from those coming from China and Hong Kong. This enhanced scope for screening order by India covers passengers flying here from almost all main southeast Asian destinations and far east countries. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) Friday issued a circular saying: “… it has been decided to expand the universal screening for all passengers arriving in flights directly from Japan, South Korea, Thailand and Singapore besides the flights from China and Hong Kong.