HANOI (Vietnam News/ANN): Three Vietnamese citizens returning from China's Wuhan tested positive for coronavirus as of Thursday (Jan 30)afternoon, according to the Ministry of Health, bringing the total number of active cases in the country to four.

One of them is being quarantined at Thanh Hoá Province Hospital, while the other two are undergoing treatment at the National Hospital for Tropical Diseases in Hanoi.

The ones being treated in Hanoi have reportedly gone to China's Wuhan – the epicentre of the sweeping pneumonia virus outbreak.

Along with a Chinese father and son from Wuhan admitted to HCM City’s Chợ Rẫy Hospital, Vietnam has recorded five cases of coronavirus infection so far.

The pair have been identified as Li Ding, 66, and 28-year-old Li Zichao. They were admitted to Chợ Rẫy Hospital on Jan 22 suffering from pneumonia and later tested positive for coronavirus.

The Ministry of Health (MoH) said both patients were recovering. Li Zichao on Tuesday was given the all-clear.

The country is quarantining a total of 32 suspected infected cases, awaiting final test results, while 65 cases have their results returned negative. 43 people are being quarantined despite having normal health as they have had contacts with suspected nCoV-infected patients.

All localities and agencies in Vietnam are working to prevent the spreading of the coronavirus that is reminiscent of the deadly Sars outbreak in 2003.

A group of 24 Vietnamese people suspected to be infected with coronavirus are being quarantined in the central city of Đanang, the city’s health department announced on Thursday.

The group includes eight Chinese citizens and 16 Vietnamese people. Some of them reportedly are suffering a mild fever.

From Jan 14 to 30, the city authorities have quarantined 53 suspected cases at Đanang Central Hospital. So far, 29 people have been discharged.

Đanang, a top destination for Chinese tourists to Vietnam, has invested more than VNĐ19.7 billion (US$852,000) in medical equipment in response to the disease.

On the same day, a 29-year-old flight attendant quarantined at Quảng Nam Province Hospital for suspected coronavirus infection was confirmed to be suffering from influenza B.

The patient’s condition is stable and will be discharged soon.

A 56-year-old woman has been quarantined in the Mekong Delta Province of Hậu Giang after returning from China’s Heilongjiang Province with a high fever, the provincial department of health reported on Thursday.

Hanoi People’s Committee urged the city department of health to stock some 20 million facemasks for its citizens in case of outbreaks.

The Civil Aviation Authority of Vietnam has asked carriers to adjust schedules and halt all flights from infected areas in China to Vietnam in its fourth directive since the outbreak started.

The agency will also suspend licensing new flights from Vietnam to China’s infected areas.

Airports are tasked to closely work with carriers to pull out all the stops to prevent further spreading of the disease, prepare for emergency cases and guide passengers on disease prevention.

The Ministry of Health has asked medical facilities to classify patients and arrange separate examination rooms for patients with symptoms of acute respiratory infection, for example cough and fever, and pay due attention to epidemiological factors of those who live or come from China within 14 days. — Vietnam News/Asia News Network