Trump lawyers discount Bolton

President Trump’s defense team appealed to the Senate on Tuesday to disregard a new account by the former national security adviser John R. Bolton that bolsters the impeachment case against the president. But by day’s end, Republican leaders working feverishly to block testimony from Mr. Bolton or other witnesses indicated they had not yet corralled the votes to do so.

On the final day of arguments on Mr. Trump’s behalf, Jay Sekulow, one of the president’s private lawyers, sought to raise doubts about Mr. Bolton’s claim in an unpublished manuscript that Mr. Trump tied the release of military aid to Ukraine to investigations into his political rivals, calling it an “unsourced allegation” that was “inadmissible” in his impeachment trial.

Two Republicans, Senators Mitt Romney of Utah and Susan Collins of Maine, have said they would most likely vote for witnesses, but Democrats would need four Republicans to join them in order to prevail. (New York Times)

Featured stories

Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska., left, talks to reporters Tuesday at the Capitol in Washington. (Manuel Balce Ceneta, Associated Press)AP

Analysis: Trump defense team makes compelling case for Bolton testimony (NBC News)

Anatomy of a ‘smear’: How John Bolton became a target of the pro-Trump Internet (Washington Post)

3 things to know after Tuesday’s Trump impeachment trial (ABC News)

Pentagon now says 50 service members suffered brain injuries from Iran attack (ABC News)

Coronavirus risk in U.S. ‘remains low’ even as federal officials take steps to protect public (NBC News)

Hundreds of US evacuees land in Alaska from China as coronavirus outbreak grows (CNN)

National news

U.S. national debt will rise to 98% of GDP by 2030, CBO projects (Wall Street Journal)

Kobe Bryant’s body, 8 others recovered from copter that lacked key terrain warning system (USA Today)

Harvard scientist charged with lying about ties to Chinese university; two Chinese nationals accused of economic espionage (Boston Globe)

Lawyers for indicted Giuliani associates spar over records sent to Congress (Politico)

Washington Post clears reporter who tweeted link to Kobe Bryant rape allegations (Washington Post)

NPR sends letter to State Dept. demanding answers for reporter’s removal from trip (The Hill)

A Maryland cop was charged with murder after a man was shot 7 times inside his police cruiser (CNN)

Dylann Roof appeals conviction, death sentence in Charleston massacre (CBS News)

It could take months to identify all 8 victims of Alabama boat blaze, fire chief says (NBC News)

Several high-rise buildings in Miami were evacuated after a powerful earthquake hit the Caribbean (CNN)

World news

Trump leaps into Middle East fray with peace plan that Palestinians denounce (Reuters)

Netanyahu indicted in court after removing immunity request (The Guardian)

2 bodies recovered after U.S. military plane crashes in Afghanistan (NBC News)

Assad regime captures town in Syria’s last rebel-held territory (The Guardian)

West Libyan forces claim downed drone as Turkish support arrives (Reuters)

Floods leave more than 40 people dead in Brazil (CNN)