First virus death outside China reported in the Philippines

The first death from the novel coronavirus outside of China was reported in the Philippines on Sunday.

A 44-year-old Chinese man from the city of Wuhan in Hubei province, the epicenter of the epidemic, traveled to the Philippines and died in the capital Manila on Saturday, the Philippines’ Department of Health said.

He was a companion of a 38-year-old woman, also from Wuhan, who was the first to test positive for the virus in the country, the Philippine Daily Inquirer reported.

Both patients arrived in the Philippines via Hong Kong on Jan. 21, the newspaper said.

Meanwhile, the death toll from the outbreak in Hubei province rose by 56 to 350 on Monday, Chinese state television reported citing official figures.

There were another 2,103 cases detected in Hubei, the epicenter of the outbreak, taking the total in the province to 11,177 as of Feb. 2.

Hubei’s provincial capital of Wuhan, where the virus is thought to have originated, reported 41 new deaths. A total of 265 people in Wuhan have now died from the virus.

New confirmed cases surged by 1,033 in Wuhan and climbed by 244 in nearby Huanggang on Feb. 2. Two new deaths were reported in the city, about 60 kilometers (37 miles) east of Wuhan.

Hubei has been under virtual quarantine, with roads sealed off and public transport shut down. Elsewhere, China has placed growing restrictions on travel and business.

The province extended its Lunar New Year holiday break to Feb. 13 in a bid to contain the outbreak.

The Philippines on Sunday expanded a travel ban to include all foreigners coming from China, including Hong Kong and Macau, thereby widening an earlier restriction that covered only those from Hubei province.

Those who traveled to China, Hong Kong or Macau in the last 14 days would also be banned, the Inquirer said.

Filipinos and Philippine permanent visa holders coming home from China, Hong Kong or Macau will have to be quarantined for 14 days.

Also temporarily banned is travel to China, Hong Kong and Macau.

The Philippines’ Bureau of Immigration said it would implement the President’s order immediately.

At least another 171 cases have been reported in more than two dozen other countries and regions, including the United States, Japan, Thailand, and Britain.

Beijing is facing mounting isolation as countries introduce travel restrictions, airlines suspend flights and governments evacuate their citizens, risking worsening a slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy.

Ninth US case

In the United States, President Donald Trump said the country has taken decisive action to protect Americans.

A ninth case of the fast-spreading virus was confirmed in Santa Clara, in the San Francisco Bay area, health officials said. The Pentagon is providing housing for people arriving from overseas who might need to be quarantined.

Americans who visited Hubei will be subject to a mandatory quarantine of 14 days – the incubation period of the virus – upon entering the country. Americans who traveled to other parts of mainland China will undergo health screening and be asked to self-quarantine for up to 14 days.

Foreigners who have traveled in China within 14 days of their arrival will be denied entry.

Trump appeared to downplay concerns about the impact in the US of the flu-like virus, telling Fox television in an interview, “We’re gonna see what happens, but we did shut it down, yes.”

National security adviser Robert O’Brien said the US has offered to send medical and other health professionals but Beijing had not yet accepted.

Chinese data on the numbers of infections and deaths suggests the new coronavirus is less deadly than the 2002-03 outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which killed nearly 800 people of the some 8,000 it infected, although such numbers can evolve rapidly.

The World Health Organization has declared the outbreak a public health emergency of international concern, but said global trade and travel restrictions are not needed.

However, countries have ramped up border controls.

Japan plans to send another chartered plane mid-week or later to bring back Japanese nationals who are still in Hubei, its foreign ministry said on Sunday.

Japan has barred foreigners who have been in Hubei from entering the country. South Korea will impose a similar entry ban from Tuesday, Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun said. With Reuters

– Contact us at [email protected]

CG