A SECOND suspected case of Coronavirus has led to the isolation of a male in his mid 20's in Cork University Hospital.

The Irish man is understood to have returned from China recently and presented at the hospital with symptoms similar to those of the deadly virus.

4 Cork University Hospital Credit: Alamy

4 A doctor being disinfected by his colleague at a quarantine zone in Wuhan Credit: AFP or licensors

He was assessed at the Medical Assessment Unit following which he was placed in an isolation unit while tests are continuing and results are awaited.

Earlier today, a woman was placed in isolation in Kerry University Hospital over fears she has contracted the virus.

The patient, who arrived at KUH displaying flu-like symptoms, is understood to have been in contact with people who travelled to and from China recently.

The coronavirus, which has infected more than 24,320 and killed nearly 500 people, is believed to have originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan.

Health officials say the death toll for the virus is likely to rise because of the high number of people infected - with the mortality rate currently at two per cent.

The patient was attended to by doctors, who immediately had her placed in isolation.

All necessary preventative precautions being taken by medics and nursing staff caring for her.

Staff are said to be “very aware” of the dangers and are ensuring that they adhere to strict rules in hygiene and other protocols to ensure that if this is a case of the virus, it will be strictly controlled and isolated.

A source said: “The patient is being treated for respiratory problems and presented complaining of flu like symptoms.

“The alarm bells rang when she explained she had been in contact with people who had travelled to China during the virus outbreak”.

PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES

It’s understood the woman, who is originally from China, is responding well to anti-viral medication and her condition is believed not to be life-threatening.

She has been tested for coronavirus and her continued treatment will depend on the results of the tests.

However, the source said the measures are precautionary until they know what exactly what they are dealing with.

A spokesperson for the hospital said they do not comment on individual cases.

Coronavirus can take up to 14 days for symptoms to show. These may include a cough, a shortness of breath, breathing difficulties and a high temperature.

KILLER TRANSFER

If untreated it can develop into pneumonia, severe respiratory syndrome and kidney failure.

Meanwhile, pregnant women infected with the deadly snakeflu could pass it on to their unborn child, top medics have warned.

Doctors at Wuhan Children’s Hospital made the revelation after a woman who had contracted the killer virus gave birth and tests confirmed her newborn also tested positive.

The baby which was born on Sunday was tested and confirmed to have the virus according to the Chinese state broadcaster CCTV.

Three Irish citizens, including Kildare teacher Ben Kavanagh are currently being quarantined, in a hospital near Liverpool after they were evacuated from the Chinese city last month.

INCREASED RISK

There have no been no confirmed cases of the coronavirus in Ireland but medics have warned the chances of it spreading here have “gone up” after people were found to have it in the UK.

Dr Fergal Quinn told RTE’s Sean O’Rourke earlier this week: “Since there have been a couple of cases in the UK, that risk has gone up.

“I’m not trying to scaremonger. I said we had good algorithms and protocols, which we do and they’re evidence-based.

“What we don’t have is the infrastructure to deal with this and nothing has been learned over the last 15/20 years.”

Coronavirus panic as thirsty staff on Hong Kong cruise ship shows signs of killer bug as victims stretchered off

He added: “We should have had a building programme to ensure that influenza - which killed more people than coronavirus is ever going to kill in Ireland - that we can manage those and we can’t currently manage those appropriately.

“We’re not therefore, going to be able to manage coronavirus appropriately.

“Lessons need to be learned, we have a situation where public health doctors are telling the public at large that we’re well prepared but the reality is, many of these doctors haven’t set foot in an emergency department, they’ve no idea - the actual frontline reality and that needs to change.”

There were fears a man removed from a Moscow flight by medics in hazmat suits at Dublin Airport had the deadly virus but tests have since proved negative.

MOST READ IN NEWS TRYSOLATION Our man attempts self quarantine as more cases of Covid-19 reported in Ireland random attack Brave couple 'terrified' after horror assault by teen gang in Dublin city SHOCK PREDICTION Top doc claims 20,000 Irish people could be killed by Covid-19 BIZ HIT Owner of one of Ireland’s busiest pubs says Covid-19 fears are battering business FAIRYTALE PRINCESS Kate leaves Waterstones with full bag after asking for children's books Exclusive bar bill barney US soldiers drinking during Shannon stopover involved in bar bill dispute

A health department spokeswoman said: "To date, there are no confirmed cases of Coronavirus in Ireland. The Department does not comment on individual cases, other than confirmed cases.

"Ireland is well positioned to detect and respond to a case of novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) that might arise here.

"The Health Protection Surveillance Centre (HPSC) website is updated daily at 13.00 with the latest information about the novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV)."

4 A young toddler wears a face mask while being carried by her father in Hong Kong Credit: Alamy Live News