About 250 Americans traveling from China were expected to land in the Bay Area Tuesday night or early Wednesday and be quarantined at Travis Air Force Base in Fairfield for up to two weeks while being monitored for signs that they are infected with the new coronavirus.

The evacuees will stay at Travis’ Westwind Inn, where they will under go regular checks for fever and other symptoms of respiratory illness, according to a spokesman for U.S. Rep. John Garamendi, D-Fairfield.

China is in the midst of a massive outbreak of the new coronavirus, which has spread to more than two dozen other countries including the United States. As of Tuesday afternoon, more than 23,000 people have been infected, and nearly 500 have died. Eleven cases have been reported in the United States, including four in the Bay Area.

Travis was selected as one of four military sites to quarantine Americans returning from China, while the virus spreads widely there. The virus has an incubation period of up to 14 days, so travelers will be kept isolated from others until that time is up and they are not showing symptoms of illness. Those who do get sick will be moved to medical facilities, where they will be treated in isolation rooms.

The Travis-bound flight is the second to return from Wuhan, China — the epicenter of the outbreak — since the United States instituted major border restrictions limiting travel from China. Last week, 195 Americans who had been evacuated from Wuhan were quarantined at an air base in Riverside County.

On Tuesday, a child who had been quarantined in Riverside County was taken to a nearby hospital after developing a fever. The child is being tested for coronavirus but results have not yet been reported.

Garamendi was notified this week of plans to route the second flight to Travis, which is in his district, said Eric Olsen, a spokesman for the Congressman. Olsen said that the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Department of Health and Human Services are leading the quarantine arrangements.

Erin Allday is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. Email: eallday@sfchronicle.com