1. Delhi Police probe finds Jamia shooter was self-radicalised

The initial round of investigation into the Jamia firing incident has revealed that the teenage shooter was self-radicalised. He has told interrogators of Delhi Police that over the past two years he started reading incendiary posts on social media. On Thursday afternoon, the man brandished a firearm and shot at one of the protesting students of Jamia university while shouting "yeh lo azaadi". READ FULL REPORT

2. Farukkhabad man who took 23 kids hostage shot, wife beaten to death

A murder accused in UP's Farukkhabad held 23 children aged between six months and 15 years, hostage at his house after inviting them to his daughter's birthday party on Thursday night. Police managed to rescue all the children after a 9-hour-long standoff and killed the captor. Locals and parents of the children who were held hostage beat up the captor's wife and killed her. READ FULL REPORT

3. Ahead of Budget, govt to table Economic Survey

Budget Session of Parliament will commence on Friday with an address by President Ram Nath Kovind to the joint sitting of two Houses of Parliament. President Kovind will deliver a speech in the Central Hall of Parliament at 11 am. The government will also release the Economic Survey for 2019-2020 on Friday, a day before Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presents Union Budget 2020-21 on February 1. FOLLOW LIVE BLOG

4. Air India jet to evacuate Indians from China today

Air India has deployed a special plane, flight B747, to evacuate Indians from China's Wuhan city in wake of the coronavirus outbreak that has killed over 200 in the country. The Air India flight will depart today from Delhi for Wuhan city in China's Hubei province (China) for the evacuation of Indians amid the coronavirus outbreak that has caused worldwide panic. The special flight will depart from Delhi at 12:30 pm on Friday. READ FULL REPORT

5. WHO declares world emergency over coronavirus

The death toll in China from the new coronavirus reached 213 on Friday, with overall cases worldwide rising rapidly in an outbreak that the World Health Organization (WHO) declared a global health emergency. READ FULL REPORT