Posted: Thursday, January 23, 2020. 10:30 am CST.

By BBN Staff: The deadly coronavirus, a virus that originated in Wuhan, China has claimed the lives of 17 people and has sickened at least 550 more people in China.

While, the United States and other countries have taken some precautions by screening people that are arriving from China for the virus the US has confirmed one case and several others have popped up in Asian countries.

All infected people had visited the epicenter city of Wuhan, in China’s Hubei province.

Doctors are testing at least 4 patients in Scotland who are suspected of having the virus.

The Chinese authorities are now locking down the City at the center of the coronavirus outbreak.

The lockdown begins at 10 a.m. on Thursday and will continue for an indefinite period shutting down all outbound flights and trains.

Health authorities around the world including the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) and the World Health Organization (WHO) are grappling with how to contain the rapid spread of the virus.

The coronavirus is a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV). A novel coronavirus (nCoV) is a new strain that has not been previously identified in humans.

Belize’s Ministry of Health says that it is monitoring the international alerts in relation to a new strain of coronavirus that has been linked to severe cases of respiratory tract infections.

Advertise with the largest and fastest growing audience in Belize ~ We offer fully customizable and flexible digital marketing packages. Your content is delivered instantly to thousands of users in Belize and abroad! Contact us at [email protected] or call us at 670-6397.

© 2020, BreakingBelizeNews.com. This article is the copyrighted property of Breaking Belize News. Written permission must be obtained before reprint in online or print media. REPRINTING CONTENT WITHOUT PERMISSION AND/OR PAYMENT IS THEFT AND PUNISHABLE BY LAW.

Comments