KATHMANDU, Jan 8: One hundred and twenty-two Chinese nationals arrived here on tourist visa and involved in illegal activities are being deported today. The Chinese nationals are being deported this evening, according to the Department of Immigration.

Police had arrested them on December 23 from Manamaiju, Maharajgunj and Budhanilkantha area of Kathmandu for their involvement in illegal activities, staying in Nepal. A single bench of Chief District Officer of Kathmandu, Janakraj Dahal, had, on January 5, slapped fine of Rs 1,000 each to the 122 Chinese nationals on the case under indecent behaviour.

There is a provision of charging maximum Rs 10,000 fine on indecent behaviour case. Police had handed over the arrested Chinese nationals to the Department of Immigration. The Department had decided to charge Rs 1,000 for those whose visa term has not expired and Rs 2,000 fine for those whose visa has expired. "The works of verifying their travel documents and charging them fine has been completed on Tuesday alone. They will be deported this evening," Department's immigration officer Baikuntha Raj Regmi told RSS.

It is said the Embassy of China has paid their money. The decision to deport the Chinese nationals has been made based on the Immigration Act 2049, Immigration Regulations 20151 and the Immigration Work Procedures 2065. The Act provides for a fine up to Rs 50 thousand or five years imprisonment or both depending on the nature of the crime.

The Department, however, stated that the term of the visa of 34 of them has expired. The Chinese embassy has revoked the visa of all. They are being sent back to China, preparing their travel documents. According to the Department, they will be deported on two aircraft coming from China this evening.

As per the information received, 42 of them are going by one plane and the remaining 80 on another. The Chinese citizens who had arrived in Nepal on tourist visas had committed illegal organized work. Kathmandu's Chief District Officer Dahal said they have themselves accepted of having carried out such work.