Tayo Oke([email protected])

According to an indigenous African proverb, when two elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers. How apt is this proverb in the context of the recent titanic struggle between the United States of America (responsible for a quarter of the world’s GDP), and China (responsible for a quarter of the world’s population), the first and second largest economies in the world, you might wonder? The rest of the world represents the metaphoric grass in this saying. The suffering has been most noticeable on the index of the exchange boards around the world in the last three years of intense negotiations between China and America over the new terms of trade following the tit-for-tat hike in tariffs on goods and services between the two countries. The US President, Donald Trump, campaigned as a candidate in 2016, to “call out” China on its “unfair” trade policy. “They have been taking advantage of us for far too long”, Trump said repeatedly on the campaign trail. In fact, he had been saying that for the last 30 years as a prominent businessman, long before he ever considered running for President. By consequence, and like a bull in a China shop, Trump entered the White House with his well-publicised, and pre-conceived agenda to upend the international order, to “make America great again”. The Chinese must be confronted head-on as a clear demonstration of his resolve. He was not going to deploy the tired old negotiation protocol of the World Trade Organisation; he was going to slam heavy tariffs on Chinese imports into America almost immediately, which he did. The Chinese, of course, responded in kind as they had to. Both sides dug in their heels vowing never to give in. Then, suddenly, and in a blink of an eye, it is all over; problem solved. Who blinked first?

This sounds like a classic undergraduate exam question (lecturers, please note), but seriously, it is a matter of considerable interest to global economic well-being. At six per cent growth in the last quarter, China recorded its slowest growth in almost 30 years, raising alarms not just in China, but in other economies around the world plugged into that of China and, by consequence, America. The Chinese slowdown is not entirely unconnected with the trade dispute with the US, but most analysts would agree that it more accurately reflects an unwelcome trend in the country’s economic cycle. But, spare a thought for the economies in developing countries, where the average growth rate for the last 30 years hovers around five per cent. It goes to show how far indeed China has come to occupy the centre stage since the end of World War II. The agreement signed by the two countries on January 15, 2020, is fairly voluminous (over 90 pages), these things usually are. It makes for an interesting reading, especially if one pays attention to the preamble where, among other things, it highlights the need to adhere to international norms, and that the two countries are “convinced of the benefits of contributing to the harmonious development and expansion of world trade and providing a catalyst to broader international cooperation”. It makes one wonder if the experts who wrote those words ever paid attention to President Trump’s bluster of “America first!”. America under him has been notable for wilfully disrupting the very international norms the agreement now rests on. How ironic.

The signing ceremony took place inside the studious ‘East Room’ at the White House in which dozens of American and Chinese officials were in attendance. “This is a very important and remarkable occasion”, Trump said in an uncharacteristically sombre tone. “Together we are righting the wrongs of the past”, he concluded, sounding rather triumphant. In his message, the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, said: “This proves the two sides can work together to bridge differences, good for China, the US and the whole world”. Also, sounding optimistic and rather euphoric. The agreement commits China to buying $200bn more of American goods and services over the next two years compared to where it stood at $185bn in 2017. In a quid-pro-quo, America commits to a reduction of tariffs on $120bn Chinese products from 15% to 7.5%. Total exports to China would increase to $310bn by 2021. Agricultural products (soybeans, pork, cotton and wheat) account for a big chunk of the exports to China, $12.5bn in year one, and $19.5bn in year two. Another hot potato in the dispute had been the issue of technological transfer.

China used to make it mandatory for companies doing business in the country to “share” their technical know-how as a condition for access to its market. Now, it will no longer insist on such. Trump had threatened to declare China a “currency manipulator” during his election campaign because of the propensity of the Chinese government to intervene in the exchange rates. Now, though, both countries are committed to uphold pledges already made to the G20 and the IMF not to use currency devaluation as a trade weapon, and to maintain, instead, market-driven exchange rates.

Lastly, and more interestingly, the agreement provides for an “alternative dispute resolution” requiring top officials from both countries to meet regularly to monitor the agreement. If that fails, then, China’s Deputy Premier and the US trade representative either side, can impose punitive measures without attracting “counter response” as long as the action was taken in “good faith”.

Sounds like a win-win situation for all concerned? Well, the dispute was in fact hurting them equally, but China has more to cheer than the US at this point in time. Here is why. Although China agreed to a whopping $200bn worth of imports from America, it is broadly in line with the aspiration of the Chinese authorities to boost domestic consumption, and had long wanted to diversify the economy away from being so heavily export-dependent. It has accumulated so much US dollars, which it began to re-invest in the US treasury bonds (over $1tn) in the last decade. It is reminiscent of what Japan did in the 1960s/70s in its own export of technological products and vehicles into the US, which led to a trade surplus in favour of Japan for two decades. China has been looking for ways of boosting domestic consumption all along, and the agreement is in tandem with that. Furthermore, China also agreed to protect the US intellectual property more vigorously than ever before. Trump hailed this in particular as a significant victory.

Well, China can afford to offer America all the protections and guarantees in the world, because, it no longer relies on US technology as before. Moreover, the country no longer has the need to “steal” the US technology; it has built its own so much that the US is uneasy about the pace of China’s technological advance. They are, in fact, leading in the area of digital technology as evidenced by Huawei and its 5G infrastructure which other countries are rushing to sign up to. There is nothing China commits to in the agreement that was not already in their reform plans. They may have been forced to fast-forward some of them, but that is by the way.

Finally, it seems pretty clear to outside observers that America had set out (and will continue trying) to recast Chinese capitalism in the image of its own; dog-eat-dog, winner takes all, rags-to-riches environment, including all the vices that come with that. It is what happens when the state is neutralised from the economy. That is precisely the route the Chinese leadership is determined not to travel down. China practises and thrives on collective capitalism, while the US thrives on free market individualism. No phase II, III, or IV, negotiations or any others going forward will alter these stark realities for the foreseeable future.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]