CORONAVIRUS cases continue to soar, exceeding 100,000, while more than 3,000 people have been killed by the virus.

We've explained the latest travel advice if you are travelling to Japan, Singapore or Hong Kong.

Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updates

6 What is the latest travel advice for Singapore, Japan and Hong Kong? Credit: Reuters

Is it safe to travel to Singapore?

Reported cases of coronavirus in Singapore have hit 130, with no deaths currently caused by the virus.

The UK government has updated the travel advice for Brits heading to Singapore, although does not currently prohibit Brits travelling there.

Brits returning from Singapore within the past 14 days, however, are told to "stay indoors and avoid contact with other people immediately" if displaying symptoms such as a cough or shortness of breath.

They also advise: "On January 31, the Singapore authorities announced an extension of measures designed to prevent the spread of the virus.

"From 1 February 2020, all new visitors with recent travel history to mainland China within the previous 14 days will not be granted permission to enter or transit Singapore.

"From 4 March 2020, restrictions on entry and transit will also apply to all visitors that have travel history to Iran, northern Italy or the Republic of Korea within the last 14 days."

Many countries are banning people who have been to Singapore, including Israel and Jamaica.

The US State Department has not issued any updated travel warnings for the country: "Currently, CDC is not advising people to change their travel plans to Singapore."

Airlines which are cutting or pausing flights include Singapore Airlines, United Airlines and British Airways.

If you have booked a holiday there, you should contact your airline and travel insurer although they are unlikely to offer cancellations without additional fees.

6 One of the centres handing out free face masks in Singapore Credit: AFP or licensors

6 Tourists in Singapore may need to quarantine when they return to the UK Credit: AFP or licensors

Is it safe to travel to Hong Kong?

There have been 106 confirmed cases of coronavirus in Hong Kong, with two people killed by the virus and the first case of human-to-animal infection as a dog tests positive.

Brits are urged to self-quarantine if returning from Hong Kong and have symptoms such as a fever or cough.

The current travel advice from the Foreign Office states: "There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus in China and elsewhere in the region, including Hong Kong.

"On 28 January, the Hong Kong SAR Government announced a series of measures designed to prevent the spread of the virus.

"These measures include the suspension or scaling back of flights, trains, ferries and buses between Hong Kong and mainland China, and the closure of most border crossings.

"Expect increased health screening measures, including temperature checks, on entry to and departure from Hong Kong.

"A 14-day mandatory home quarantine period is in place for new arrivals (of any nationality) who have been to mainland China in the previous 14 days."

Even transit passengers will need to be screened with temperature checks, but will only face quarantine if displaying symptoms.

Visitors who have been to South Korea within the last 14 days will not be allowed to enter the country, while those coming from Iran or regions of Italy will be forced to quarantine.

However, the UK government has not banned travel to Hong Kong, while the US State Department has issued a level 2 warning for Hong Kong, with visitors advised to "exercise increased caution".

If you have booked a holiday there, you should contact your airline and travel insurer although they are unlikely to offer cancellations without additional fees - here is everything you need to know about cancelling your holiday.

KLM, United Airlines, Singapore Airlines and Air Canada have suspended flights to Hong Kong, while BA have halved flights.

6 Cathay Pacific crew have been wearing masks following flights from Hong Kong Credit: Getty Images - Getty

6 Cases in Hong Kong have increased to 100, with quarantines in place Credit: Getty Images - Getty

6 Tokyo's Haneda Airport is almost empty of travellers Credit: Rex Features

Is it safe to travel to Japan?

Cases of coronavirus in Japan have exceeded 1,000, with more than 700 of those being from the quarantined Diamond Princess cruise ship currently docked near Tokyo.

Brits returning from Japan in the last 14 days who are displaying symptoms such as coughing, high temperatures or shortness of breath should "stay indoors and avoid contact with other people immediately".

The Japanese government is warning anyone entering the country from China or South Korea from March 9 will be quarantined for 14 days and told not to use public transport.

Ferry services will stop and passenger flights from the two countries will have to land at Narita or Kansai Airport.

The latest advice from the UK government states: "There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus in Japan, including instances of in-country transmission.

"It may cause more severe symptoms in older people, and those with pre-existing medical conditions.

"There are enhanced quarantine procedures at entry points to Japan such as airports and ports. The authorities may carry out extended health checks on arrival including compulsory hospitalisation.

"You should comply with any additional screening measures by the authorities if asked to go through extra checks."

Japan has cancelled many of the iconic cherry blossom festivals, with Tokyo Disneyland closed and fears coronavirus could also see the Tokyo Olympics cancelled.

Schools across the country have also closed until April, forcing millions of kids to stay at home.

Last month, cruise ship Diamond Princess was quarantined for two weeks after more than 700 people contracted coronavirus, killing six, although many tourists on board have since been repatriated.

The US State Department has raised the travel warning to level 2, warning to "exercise increased caution" due to coronavirus - and airlines including United, Delta and American Airlines have suspended routes to the country.

We explain everything you need to know if you want to cancel your holiday to Japan.

Coronavirus patient Carl Goldman from cruise from hell says he and others could have spread disease without knowing

Most read in travel WAT-ER DELIGHT A £250m indoor water park is coming to the UK with slides, pools and saunas TRAVEL ADVICE Benidorm and Malaga travel advice as coronavirus cases hit 675 in Spain TOP TRIPS The holiday destinations around the world without coronavirus TRAVEL ADVICE Is Italy safe as all travel to north advised against due to coronavirus PACK YOUR TRUNKS First look at new UK safari lodges where you can watch elephants from bed TRAVEL ADVICE Is Thailand safe as coronavirus hits 50 and beaches are deserted

You can also find travel advice for Thailand here.

We've explained the latest updates regarding holidays following coronavirus in Spain, Greece, and Bali.

If you're worried, make sure you know some of the warning signs, as well as the symptoms of the virus.