At least three of Oregon's public universities have halted travel and study abroad programs in China after the U.S. State Department moved the country up to a Level 4 "do not travel" advisory because of the outbreak of coronavirus.

Portland State University, Oregon State University and the University of Oregon have announced the change.

The 2019 Novel Coronavirus is a strain of respiratory illness that was first identified in Wuhan, China. Seven cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in the U.S. since December. There still have been no confirmed cases in Oregon, according to an update on the Oregon Health Authority’s website Tuesday.

PSU put out its notice Friday, the same day the State Department's advisory came out.

"Effective immediately and until further notice, all travel to mainland China for Portland State University business is suspended," the announcement stated. "The safety and well-being of our PSU community is our top priority and because of the continued spread of the coronavirus, the risk of travel at this time is too great."

The change affected three students who were studying abroad in Shanghai through third-party programs, according to university spokeswoman Christina Williams.

Two PSU students were in the program through the Council on International Educational Exchange and one with the University Studies Abroad Consortium. One of the three students was a Chinese national, Williams said, so that student simply went home after the program was put on hold.

"The other two were offered to relocate or return home (to the U.S.) and decided to return home," Williams said.

The "no travel" advisory is also impacting the university as it looks to welcome international students from China.

There were no university-sponsored travelers from OSU in Wuhan when the outbreak occurred, said OSU spokesman Steve Clark in an email Wednesday. However, the college is taking precautions.

All spring term study abroad programs to mainland China are suspended, Clark said, and will be until the CDC lowers the travel notice and advisory to a Level 2, which advises "practicing enhanced precautions." The CDC's rankings differ from the State Department's in that there are only three levels instead of four. A "Warning Level 3" notice is the highest, and advises avoiding all non-essential travel.

One student internship program involving travel to China also has been suspended.

"We are working with students to find alternate sites for these global internships," Clark said, and continuing to monitor conditions in China for summer term programs. "At this time, any students interested in summer study abroad opportunities are encouraged to identify alternate sites than China as a backup global location."

OSU also considers China to be a "high-risk destination," Clark said, and due to a long-standing travel policy, any university-sponsored travel to a high-risk destination involving students and faculty requires a petition to be approved by senior administrators.

UO also made the decision to suspend all travel to China and its study abroad programs there on Friday — a decision that impacted seven students.

Follow Jordyn Brown on Twitter @thejordynbrown or email at jbrown@registerguard.com.