A high-rise residential tower on the way in Dallas’ Deep Ellum district would adjoin one of the first buildings redeveloped in the neighborhood just east of downtown.

In 1996, Dallas-based Westdale Real Estate Investment and Management converted the former Adam Hats Co. building into loft apartments. The more than century-old building on Canton Street started out as a manufacturing plant for the Ford Motor Co.

Westdale, which is now one of the biggest owners and developers in Deep Ellum, is working with apartment builder StreetLights Residential to construct a mid-rise apartment building and a residential tower on the block next to the Adam Hats Building.

StreetLights Residential presented preliminary plans for the project this week to a meeting of the Dallas Landmark Commission’s central business district and West End task force.

“Most folks are familiar with the Adam Hats building as it exists in Deep Ellum,” said StreetLights Residential’s Greg Coutant. “It’s obviously a historic structure there.

“What we are proposing is a multifamily building on the land adjacent to that existing structure.”

StreetLights Residential officials showed plans for a five-story building that would be constructed along Canton Street next door to the Adam Hats Building. Behind the two Canton Street buildings along Taylor Street, the developer would build a high-rise of about 20 floors.

The new building on Canton would have a small courtyard on the east side of the Adam Hats Building.

Coutant said the design of the residential project would be in the spirit of the historic building but would not try to copy the architecture.

The tower would have a more modern design than the smaller building along Canton Street.

The Adam Hats Building project would be the third joint effort by Westdale and StreetLights Residential in Deep Ellum. The two property firms built the 17-story Case Building apartments at Main and Hall streets near Baylor Medical Center.

And StreetLights teamed up with Westdale on the 8-acre Epic development at Elm Street and Good-Latimer Expressway. StreetLights is building a 26-story, 310-unit apartment tower called the Hamilton as part of the Epic project. That’s the same development where Uber is building a new regional office center for 3,000 workers.

One of Westdale’s first projects in Deep Ellum was the redevelopment of the Adam Hats Building into 90 loft apartments.

Built in 1914, the Ford Motor plant in the building was once Dallas’ largest employer, cranking out 5,000 Model T cars in its first 10 years of operation. It was the first automotive plant in the Southwest.

Built for $175,000, the building was one of 30 similar assembly plants that the Detroit-based automaker established across the United States.