Kai Huang is coming home, and plans to head to a Chinese restaurant to celebrate the reunion with his wife and children.

But there are also jobs waiting for him: he has to shovel snow at the home of his mother, Yi. She has been in quarantine with him.

The two Ottawa residents were in China when the novel coronavirus epidemic began. They had gone to sell Huang’s former home, as she has moved to Ottawa.

They were evacuated on a chartered American plane that brought them first to Vancouver, then to CFB Trenton in Ontario, where they have been quarantined in a motel on the base for two weeks.

On Friday morning, Kai Huang received the good news that he was medically cleared to leave.

“My wife is going to pick me up and we are going back to Ottawa,” he said from Trenton around noon. “Nobody is sick, everybody is good, looking forward to going home.

“After that we are going to supper, then we go home. Probably I have to shovel my mom’s house’s driveway. No one has lived there for a month.

“The second thing: My hair is too long. That is probably the next thing to do.”

The restaurant trip is important, as the Huangs have been given mainly western food during two weeks in quarantine. “Very long time,” Kai Huang said. The memory of subway sandwich lunches is going to stay with him, and he was looking forward to fish, vegetables and rice at a restaurant.

The staff at CFB Trenton started bring more Chinese-style food as the quarantine went on, so “it got easier and easier” each day, he said.

Huang is a software developer with the RCMP, and plans to go back to work after taking two days off. He is also looking forward to seeing his daughter, who is a year and nine months, and his son, who is 10.

He repeated that he is very grateful to Canada for the good care.

In quarantine, the travellers were allowed to go outdoors, but not to mix with others face to face. They stayed in touch with family and friends on WeChat, a messenger app that allows video conversations.

tspears@postmedia.com

twitter.com/TomSpears1

ALSO IN THE NEWS

Downtown politicians largely passed over after city hall committee shuffle

Health Matters: Cornwall quarantine – Frequently asked questions

Passengers from coronavirus cruise ship arriving in Cornwall