Some stocks are best avoided. It hits us in the gut when we see fellow investors suffer a loss. Spare a thought for those who held China LotSynergy Holdings Limited (HKG:1371) for five whole years - as the share price tanked 96%. We also note that the stock has performed poorly over the last year, with the share price down 75%. Shareholders have had an even rougher run lately, with the share price down 20% in the last 90 days.

While a drop like that is definitely a body blow, money isn't as important as health and happiness.

See our latest analysis for China LotSynergy Holdings

Because China LotSynergy Holdings made a loss in the last twelve months, we think the market is probably more focussed on revenue and revenue growth, at least for now. Generally speaking, companies without profits are expected to grow revenue every year, and at a good clip. That's because it's hard to be confident a company will be sustainable if revenue growth is negligible, and it never makes a profit.

Over half a decade China LotSynergy Holdings reduced its trailing twelve month revenue by 42% for each year. That puts it in an unattractive cohort, to put it mildly. So it's not that strange that the share price dropped 49% per year in that period. We don't think this is a particularly promising picture. Ironically, that behavior could create an opportunity for the contrarian investor - but only if there are good reasons to predict a brighter future.

The graphic below depicts how earnings and revenue have changed over time (unveil the exact values by clicking on the image).

SEHK:1371 Income Statement, February 10th 2020 More

We consider it positive that insiders have made significant purchases in the last year. Having said that, most people consider earnings and revenue growth trends to be a more meaningful guide to the business. Dive deeper into the earnings by checking this interactive graph of China LotSynergy Holdings's earnings, revenue and cash flow.

A Different Perspective

While the broader market lost about 1.1% in the twelve months, China LotSynergy Holdings shareholders did even worse, losing 75%. However, it could simply be that the share price has been impacted by broader market jitters. It might be worth keeping an eye on the fundamentals, in case there's a good opportunity. Regrettably, last year's performance caps off a bad run, with the shareholders facing a total loss of 48% per year over five years. We realise that Buffett has said investors should 'buy when there is blood on the streets', but we caution that investors should first be sure they are buying a high quality business. I find it very interesting to look at share price over the long term as a proxy for business performance. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. To that end, you should learn about the 5 warning signs we've spotted with China LotSynergy Holdings (including 1 which is can't be ignored) .

There are plenty of other companies that have insiders buying up shares. You probably do not want to miss this free list of growing companies that insiders are buying.

Please note, the market returns quoted in this article reflect the market weighted average returns of stocks that currently trade on HK exchanges.

If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned.



We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Thank you for reading.