Scheduling is continuing as normal despite coronavirus outbreak, although re-booking fees will also be waived

Emirates airline has revealed that passengers and crew arriving from China are being screened for the coronavirus in Dubai.

Although a spokesperson told Arabian Business the scheduling of flights to and from Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou was unaffected by the outbreak, passengers who booked to travel to the aforementioned cities, as well as Wuhan, before January 24, will have re-booking fees waived and refunds will be offered.

They said: “We can confirm that the Dubai health authorities are screening passengers and crew who arrive on Emirates’ flights from China, which includes our flights from Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou.

“We are in close contact with all relevant UAE and Chinese regulatory authorities, and are complying with their directives and guidance.

“We are also closely monitoring and implementing the guidance of the World Health Organisation, which currently does not advise any restrictions on travel.

“Our crew members are highly trained and will follow standard operating procedures to manage any suspected cases on board. For more information on passenger screening, please contact the UAE’s Ministry of Health.”

The virus has claimed 56 lives since emerging in a marking the in central Chinese city of Wuhan, and spread around the world.

Cases have been discovered in China, France, Japan, Australia, the US, Canada, Malaysia, Nepal, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.

For travel to/from Wuhan via Shanghai/Beijing/Guangzhou between January 23 to February 23

Customers may change their bookings up to seven days from their booked travel date.

Customers have the option to reroute up to seven days from their booked travel date.

Customers may request a refund if they no longer wish to travel to/from Wuhan for travel dates January 23 until February 23.

For travel to/from Shanghai/Beijing/Guangzhou between January 24 to February 29

Customers may change their bookings up to seven days from their booked travel date.

Customers have the option to reroute up to seven days from their booked travel date

Customers may request a refund if they no longer wish to travel to/from Shanghai/ Beijing/Guangzhou for travel dates January 24 until February 6

For all the latest business news from the UAE and Gulf countries, follow us on Twitter and Linkedin , like us on Facebook and subscribe to our YouTube page, which is updated daily.