ADVERTISEMENT

Four students from Caleb British International School in Lagos have been declared the National Team for the 2020 edition of Global Diamond Challenge of the University of Delaware in United States.

The students with their project idea, QuickSale for the Social Innovation Category would pitch at the world stage of the competition holding between 16th and 18th of April at the Horn Entrepreneurship Summit in the US.

QuickSale is a solution app created to minimize post-harvest wastage and eliminate middlemen exploitation in the agriculture value chain. It helps to connect farmers directly to buyers of farm produce in their homes at the market price.

The team reached the semi-final from over 745 applications received; after being judged by a jury at the semi final pitch round in Nigeria, they emerged top.

ADVERTISEMENT HOW OVER 5000 NIGERIA MEN HAVE PERMANENTLY OVERCOME TERRIBLE BEDROOM PERFORMANCE DUE TO THIS RECENT DISCOVERY BY MEDICAL CONSULTANTS

The Challenge was established in 2012 by the University of Delaware to identify entrepreneurially talented high school students and teams with project ideas globally on issues that affect their generation.

At the Pitch Round event in Ogun State, the Operations Lead of TedPrime Hub, Olalekan Adeeko congratulated the top teams for reaching the global top ranking as an assessment criterion for selection for the Pitch round finals.

The Global Partnerships Lead, Ayodele Odeogbola explained that the partnership was to raise new generation of high school students with entrepreneurial mind-sets.

Quick Sale would be competing with other ideas from over 25 countries including US, China, Liberia, and Kenya for $13,000, $9,500 and $5,000 respectively.

The top 3 national teams, Caleb British international School Lagos, Government Day Secondary School, Karu, Abuja and Brookers International School in Ogun State, were also awarded with a shared sum of N100,000.

Students from Abeokuta Grammar School, Ogun State, won the top place and represented Nigeria in 2019 with their project on gender violence and social injustice on girl child.

Related

Download Daily Trust News App