In 2007, when the United Nations announced that by 2050, 70% of the earth's human population would be living in cities, the world jumped to plan for an increasingly urban future. Soon after, however, OMA principal Rem Koolhaas began to search for a different path. At New York's Guggenheim Museum, the architect—with AMO and a host of international collaborators—has staged a new show to explore living, producing, and designing in the countryside: what it defines as the 98% of the world's surface (oceans included) that does not make up its 2% of cities. The countryside is explored as a historical concept in ancient societies, as well as through the varying attempts to build planned countrysides in socialist countries, through new food and energy production methods, through land conservation, through climate change, and through off-the-grid living in examples across the globe from Chile to Japan.

While the show offers a myriad of diligently researched case studies of successful and unsuccessful countryside initiatives, it doesn't come to any specific conclusion. Like a dissertation lacking a thesis, it winds up the museum's spiral ramp rotunda just to send the visitor right back down. But the agenda of the show is not to present any specific call to action, says Koolhaas, who 40 years ago wrote Delirious New York, a love letter to the city claiming that life would not be possible without "the culture of congestion" (he has since changed his tune: "Roughly 10 years ago, I became nervous and dissatisfied with that concentration"). Instead, the show's agenda is simply to bring focus back to the countryside itself. It's an added bonus if it sparks a migration. On the helm of this week's opening of Countryside, the Future, AD spoke with Koolhaas about his vision for this future in the idyll.

Photo: Laurian Ghinitoiu, Courtesy AMO More

Architectural Digest: What are the contemporary incentives to move to the countryside?

Rem Koolhaas: I don’t think I can point out specific reasons, but I think the intention of the show is more to talk about the need than the actual incentives. The motivation of the show is to focus on the agenda and to insist that the grave neglect is irresponsible and self-defeating, and that people need to find incentives in themselves. And of course, one great incentive is that life in the city is not wonderful in many ways and that there is an incredibly beautiful part of the world that we are completely ignoring and rarely venturing into. That is one part: the beauty and the urgency of certain potentials that are there. I cannot enumerate the reasons you should go, that there are jobs there, et cetera.

AD: All the examples in the show of countryside living or productivity are hyperlocal solutions or an incentive that came from within a person or a specific community.

RK: Yeah, came from within.

Photo: Laurian Ghinitoiu, Courtesy AMO More