However, an official familiar with the agreements told the Financial Times that while they declared broadly that these projects would be built, they left some key bidding, financing and other details open to future negotiation.

Myanmar’s powerful military and civilian government remain wary of China’s embrace at a time when BRI projects are coming under question in some other Asian countries because of their cost and claims they serve primarily Chinese interests.

Left off the table in the visit was the Myitsone hydropower dam, a $US3.6 billion ($5.2 billion) Chinese mega-project in Myanmar’s northern Kachin state that was frozen in 2011 by the country’s previous government, after widespread opposition.

China had over the past year been pressing Myanmar to relaunch it, but Aung San Suu Kyi, whose National League for Democracy will face voters in national election later this year, resisted doing so.

“Like a lot of south-east Asian countries, Myanmar is more ambivalent about China than we often think,” said Hervé Lemahieu, director of the Asian Power and Diplomacy Programme at Asia’s Lowy Institute. “But economically, the relationship has gotten stronger.”

China has proved an indispensable ally for Myanmar, using its seat on the UN Security Council to shield the country from some of the international censure as it entrenches economic interests there.

China is Myanmar’s biggest trading partner and one of its largest sources of inward investment. About 1 million Chinese tourists visit the country every year.

Advertisement

Mr Xi’s visit to Myanmar was the first by a Chinese leader in 19 years, and his first state visit in the calendar year.

In an op-ed published in Myanmar’s state newspaper on the eve of his visit, the Chinese president invoked the two countries’ “millennia-old pauk-phaw friendship”, using the Burmese language word for “fraternal”.

The appeal to shared history may have been a response to Myanmar’s caution about giving China carte blanche on big projects.

In 2018 Myanmar renegotiated the Kyaukpyu deep-sea port project down to $US1.3 billion, from $US7.3 billion before, for fear it would saddle the country with excessive debt, as was the case for a BRI port project in Sri Lanka.

The Myanmar project is an important one for China because Kyaukpyu is the terminus of previously built oil and gas pipelines running to China, and it provides Beijing with an alternative route for energy imports that avoids the narrow and geopolitically sensitive Malacca Strait.

Some in Myanmar government circles questioned the project because the port was built primarily to serve China’s rather than Myanmar’s trade, and because they feared the port could in future be put to military use.

Elsewhere in south-east Asia, Hun Sen’s government in Cambodia has taken steps to allow China to establish what US diplomats say could become a permanent military presence. Cambodia denies it plans to allow China to establish a base.