The National War memorial was inaugurated last year in February where the names of soldiers who laid down their lives for the country post-independence, are carved. (Rep photo: ANI)

For the time, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will pay tributes to the brave-hearts by laying a wreath at the National War Memorial instead of the Amar Jawan Jyoti at the India Gate on the occasion of 71st Republic Day on Sunday.

The 90-minute-long Republic Day parade ceremony will commence with Prime Minister Modi visiting the National War Memorial near the India Gate.

The National War memorial was inaugurated last year in February where the names of soldiers who laid down their lives for the country post-independence, are carved.

The India Gate was built in the memory of soldiers who fought for the British in World War I.

Marching for the first time in the Republic Day parade will be the contingent of the Corps of Army Air Defence.

It will be followed by The Combined Band of Bengal Engineers Group and Centre, Brigade of Guards Training Centre, 3 Electronics and Mechanical Engineers Centre and Madras Regimental Centre.

One of the main highlights will be the marching contingent of DRDO that will showcase Anti-Satellite Weapons (ASAT) -- Mission Shakti. ASAT (Anti-Satellite) weapons play a critical role in providing the necessary strategic deterrence.

Mission Shakti, India's first Anti-Satellite (ASAT) mission, was a major breakthrough in demonstrating the nation's Anti-Satellite technology.

In a major defence achievement, India had on March 27 last year successfully tested an anti-satellite missile by shooting down its own decommissioned satellite that was on a 'Low Earth Orbit' at a height of 300-km from the Earth's surface.

The Dhanush artillery will also be displayed for the first time during the Republic Day parade.

Apart from this, the newly-inducted Chinook heavy lift and Apache attack choppers would be taking part in the parade for the first time.

K-9 VAJRA-T, newly-inducted five-metre Short Span Bridging System, Sarvatra Bridge System, Transportable Satellite Terminal and Akash weapon system will be also seen as the main attractions in the mechanised columns.

In a first, a contingent of women bikers of CRPF will perform daredevil stunts. The contingent will be led by Inspector Seema Nag, who will be seen saluting while standing atop a moving motorcycle. The bikers will perform several daring acts on moving bikes before a human pyramid on multiple motorcycles bring up the rear.

It is for the first time that a "Tri-service formation" is taking part in the Republic Day parade. It will be followed by the 'Vic' formation of Chinook helicopters, used for airlifting diverse loads to remote locations.

Apache helicopters, Dornier aircraft, C-130J Super Hercules aircraft, Netra, an Airborne Early Warning and Control System aircraft and the 'Globe' formation comprising three C-17 Globemasters are also among some of the other highlights.