BY ISAAC NICHOLAS

Morobe Governor Ginson Saonu has raised serious allegations of corruption in the awarding of a contract to a foreign company for school supplies in Morobe Province.

Governor Saonu said the Morobe provincial government signed a memorandum of agreement with the Department of Education for the province to manage and implement the TFFE.

“Instead of honouring the MoA, my government heard with surprise this week that a company called Subaru Ltd has been contracted for K4.5 million to deliver TFFE supplies to schools throughout Morobe.

“I am deeply concerned that once again the Education Department has ignored the advice given to it by my government, placed this contract on tender when it knows very well Morobe provincial government already has a standing contract with a company to deliver school materials throughout Morobe.

“I am also deeply disturbed that the contract to Subaru is not above board and will force my government to take legal action to prevent public monies from being paid to this company which looks very suspicious and is very likely corrupt.”

Mr Saonu questioned the Minister for Education Joseph Yopyyopy on who is the sole foreign shareholder of the company from China who secured this contract.

“Can the minister explain how and why this company was chosen by National Procurement Commission to deliver TFFE and school materials to Morobe Province when this company has no knowledge whatsoever of Morobe Province, has no base and logistical support in Lae which could enable it to supply all schools in Morobe, has no past experience in delivery of school materials.”

Mr Yopyyopy, in response, confirmed that five provinces had signed an MoA, that specifies that all cash grants to schools will now be manage by those five provinces

“Regarding the latest contract that was awarded, to be honest with you, I don’t know the contractor.

I’ve raised a few questions because the new Act under the Procurement Commission has made it so difficult for most of our local contractors to bid for the contract,” Mr Yopyyopy said.

“One clause in that Act if a local contractor wants to bid for a contract worth K10 million, the contractor must have 40 per cent of that in his account and that is K4 million and I don’t think most of our local contractors have that kind of money.

“That is the thing I raised and I want us to change that so that our local contractors can fully benefit in that sense.

“The contract was advertised and was given the opportunity for everyone to apply.

It came through but then the NPC had the upper hand of it and they made the decision to give the contract to Subaru. I don’t know who owns the company.”