“We have put in place some measures to ensure that people who have been inconvenienced as a result of the construction, at least get other alternative routes to use,” he said.

“We have put in place some measures to ensure that people who have been inconvenienced as a result of the construction, at least get other alternative routes to use,” he said.

CONSTRUCTION

The Kampala Capital City Authority has signed a contract with China State Construction and Engineering Corporation Limited (CSCEC), the 8.06km Kabuusu-Bunamwaya-Lweza road project, giving it 15 months to have completed the work.

KCCA spokesperson Peter Kaujju, says, the project is part of the Kampala infrastructural Development Program (KIDP), being funded under World Bank.

Over shh97b has been earmarked for the project according to KCCA. He says the project intends to improve on the condition of the road itself, and the people who use or live around it.

According to CSCEC, spokesperson Kenneth Mandella, serious work will commence this week on Sunday, whereby, all boda bodas and cars, shall be restricted from using any part of the road that will be under construction apart from the pedestrians only.

“We have put in place some measures to ensure that people who have been inconvenienced as a result of the construction, at least get other alternative routes to use,” he said.

While meeting journalists at Nalukolongo, on Wednesday last week, the CSCEC, Safeguard manager, Barbara Nakayenze, said those coming from Bunamwaya will use Mutundwe road which stretches up to Nalukolongo, Nyanama to Freedom City, or Ndeeba, while those in Kitebi can use Wamala road, which can also connect them to Kabowa, through Ndeeba.

She added that those around Muteesa Stadium, formerly known as Wankulukuku, will use Kiyembe road, and connect to Ntake road, to Mutundwe-Nalukolongo road, while those from Bunamwaya trading centre, can use Aggrey road, or Kisigula road, and get out from Mutundwe.

Others from Kabuusu may continue to Nalukolongo road to Mutundwe road, then use Wamala road, or can also use Ndeeba via Kabowa road and later connect to Nyanama-Zzana road, to Nnebalamye Mayanja road which goes up to Najjanankumbi, along Entebbe road.

Meanwhile, Abbas Ali Mugisha, the Safety Officer, CSCEC said, once completed, the Kabuusu-Bunamwaya-Lweza road will also have solar street lights installed up to where it connects to Seguku-Entebbe road, and good the drainage systems.

“We intend to work together with the members of the community, KCCA, and Police, to ensure that nobody is affected by our work,” said Mugisha.

However, some members of the public expressed concern that much as they want to get a modern road in their area, in most cases the construction companies tend to prolong the agreed period of time within which they have to finish the work and end up disrupting their work.