SAS has issued this statement:

The safety of our passengers and employees is always our highest priority. Due to the situation in China regarding the Coronavirus, SAS has decided to prolong the period for suspending its flights, to and from Shanghai and Beijing, until February 29.

SAS will also close sales for all flights to and from Shanghai and Beijing until March 15.

Refunds and rebooking possibilities are offered for affected passengers. Hong Kong will be serviced as scheduled, and SAS will continue to monitor the situation in close dialogue with authorities. Customers traveling to, from or via Hong Kong may voluntary change their reservation or request a refund.

The airline also issued this statement:

Effective February 2, 2020 23:00 CET, the US authorities (TSA) has issued new requirements for passengers traveling to the US. The new requirements are valid for passengers who has been present in mainland China within the preceding 14-days of the date of the individual’s entry or attempted entry into the United States.

All airlines must question each passenger to determine whether the individual has been present in Mainland China within the preceding 14-days of the date of the individual’s entry or attempted entry into the United States.

If presence cannot be determined, the foreign air carrier must: Examine the passport for entry and/ or exit stamps and also examine the passenger PNR.

If determined that passenger has been in Mainland China, the passenger must only arrive the United States to the following airports when traveling with SAS: Chicago (ORD), Los Angeles (LAX) or San Fransisco (SFO). Effective 03FEB20 – New York (EWR) and Washington (IAD) has been added.

SAS other destinations in the United States, Boston (BOS) and Miami (MIA), are not cleared to accept passengers who have been present in mainland China within the preceding 14-days of the date of the individual’s entry.

Passengers will be questioned along with the other questions SAS already are obliged to perform for flights to the United States.

SAS also announced the delivery of the second Airbus A350-900 (SE-RSB):

Over the weekend SAS Chief Pilot Thomas completed our acceptance flight of our second Airbus A350-900.

All photos by SAS.