Five more cases of COVID-19 infection are fully recovered and have been discharged from hospital on Tuesday, February 18, including a one-year-old boy (case 76) who was confirmed earlier this week.

As of 12pm on February 18, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed four additional cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore. Of these, three are linked to the Grace Assembly of God and one is linked to a previous case.

This brings the total number of infection cases to 52. Most are stable or improving; four are in critical condition in the intensive care unit.

© NCID Photo courtesy: NCID

Case 78: A 57 year-old female Singapore Citizen with no recent travel history to China, and is linked to the cluster at Grace Assembly of God.

The woman reported onset of symptoms on February 9 and had sought treatment at two general practitioner (GP) clinics on February 10 and 17. She was conveyed to NCID on 17 February.

Prior to hospital admission, she had gone to work at a community hospital. She performs an administrative function at the community hospital, and had not interacted with patients since onset of symptoms. She stays at the Dairy Farm area.

© Grace Assembly of God Photo courtesy: Grace Assembly of God

Case 79: A 35 year-old female Malaysian national who is a Singapore Work Pass holder, and has no recent travel history to China. She is a family member of Case 72.

The woman reported onset of symptoms on February 12. As she had been identified as a close contact of Case 72, she was placed under home quarantine from February 15.

Before she was served a Quarantine Order, she had gone to work at FoodXchange @ Admiralty (8A Admiralty Street). Her job function at FoodXchange does not entail handling of food. She stays at Woodlands Crescent.

Case 80: A 38 year-old female Singapore Citizen with no recent travel history to China. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on February 18, and is linked to Case 66. She works at NUH in an administrative function, and had not interacted with patients since onset of symptoms.

Case 81: A 50 year-old male Singapore Citizen with no recent travel history to China. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on February 18, and is linked to the cluster at Grace Assembly of God.