A Chinese man and his son have sent a letter to extend their gratitude toward the Vietnamese doctors at a hospital in Ho Chi Minh City who played a significant part in their recovery from the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19).

Li Ding, a 66-year-old Chinese national, and his son, 28-year-old Li Zichao, recently sent the letter, in both Chinese and English, to doctors at Cho Ray Hospital in Ho Chi Minh City.

The father and son were confirmed as the first two cases of COVID-19 in Vietnam after their hospitalization on January 22.

Following their treatment, Li Zichao was discharged from the infirmary on February 4, while Li Ding was released over a week later on February 12.

“It was Vietnamese doctors and nurses’ medical treatment with their all strength that finally healed us,” the Chinese citizens wrote in their English version of the letter.

They went on to thank all the medical practitioners at Cho Ray Hospital who took good care of them.

“We agreed that we will be back to the beautiful Vietnam [sic] again at an appropriate time in the future, and will be back to Cho Ray Hospital again to express our most sincere thanks to our distinguished friends,” the letter reads.

The letter that Li Ding and his son Li Zichao sent to doctors at Cho Ray Hospital in Ho Chi Minh City

Dr. Le Quoc Hung, head of Cho Ray’s tropical diseases department, has posted the letter on his Facebook account, considering it encouragement for all medical staff in Vietnam and the world to battle the COVID-19 epidemic.

Dr. Nguyen Tri Thuc, director of the infirmary, told Tuoi Tre (Youth) newspaper that he felt “a little proud” to be able to help the patients recover from the disease, but the biggest joy of all is contributing to the success of Vietnam’s healthcare sector in the fight against the novel coronavirus.

The COVID-19 has killed 2,360 people and infected nearly 77,700 globally since it first hit the central Chinese city of Wuhan in December 2019, according to the South China Morning Post.

Vietnam has so far confirmed 16 cases of the viral infection, including 13 Vietnamese, one Vietnamese American, and two Chinese.

Among them, 15 have fully recovered and been released as of Friday afternoon. The only remaining patient is receiving treatment at a general clinic in the northern province of Vinh Phuc and expected to be discharged next week.

The country has recorded no new infection since Thursday last week.

Like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter to get the latest news about Vietnam!