Prince Andrew’s downfall in the British royal family has been one of the biggest scandals in two decades. The third-born child of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip has always been known for his playboy tendencies. However, the scandals of his ex-wife, Sarah, Duchess of York, have always garnered more interest.

However, all of that changed in the summer of 2019 when Prince Andrew’s friend, financier Jeffrey Epstein hanged himself while he was in prison. The New York businessman was a child sex offender who had served time previously for soliciting a minor for sex. However, new charges surrounding sex trafficking had him locked behind bars.

With news of Epstein’s arrest and subsequent suicide — people began looking more closely at Prince Andrew as well. Things got even worse when one of Epstein’s alleged victims, Virginia Roberts, accused the prince of sexual abuse. The final straw was the Duke of York’s horrible BBC News Night interview where he defended his friendship with Epstein. This caused a ton of outrage and resulted in Prince Andrew resigning from royal life.

Prince Andrew refuses to cooperate with the FBI

When Prince Andrew withdrew from his royal duties in November 2019 he appeared remorseful. “It has become clear to me over the last few days that the circumstances relating to my former association with Jeffrey Epstein has become a major disruption to my family’s work and the valuable work going on in the many organisations and charities that I am proud to support,” he said in a statement. “Therefore, I have asked Her Majesty if I may step back from public duties for the foreseeable future, and she has given her permission.”

Unfortunately, the Duke of York has refused to cooperate with the FBI in their investigation of Epstein. “Prince Andrew has provided zero cooperation,” an insider told the Associated Press. “The Duke is more than happy to talk to the FBI but he hasn’t been approached by them yet. He is angry about the way this is being portrayed.”

This hasn’t helped his image at all.

“Ghislaine said, ‘He’s coming back to the house. And I want you to do for him (Prince Andrew) what you do for Epstein.’” Virginia Roberts Giuffre shares details about her previous encounter with Prince Andrew at Ghislaine Maxwell’s London townhome. pic.twitter.com/IZVYaIfdTt — TODAY (@TODAYshow) September 20, 2019

The British royal family isn’t sure what to do with Prince Andrew

Not only has this scandal put a dark cloud over Princess Beatrice’s engagement and wedding — Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Charles seem uncertain about how to proceed with the Duke of York. They’ve already been holding crisis talks about him.

“Both had hoped the Duke of York could perhaps be rehabilitated back into public life in time but that is now looking increasingly unlikely,” a source told The Sun.

Regrettably, it doesn’t look like Prince Andrew knows how to step away silently.

Her Majesty The Queen sent an encouraging message to President Xi and Chinese people: At the critical time of fighting #coronavirus, I express my sincere sympathy for Chinese people, and pray for the speedy control and victory over the virus. It was conveyed by Duke of York. pic.twitter.com/RZItxQ26WS — Liu Xiaoming (@AmbLiuXiaoMing) February 8, 2020

Prince Andrew just returned to the royal spotlight

On Feb. 8, 2020, in a move that shocked everyone, Prince Andrew visited Liu Xiaoming, China’s ambassador to the U.K. Though this was supposed to be a private visit — the Duke of York certainly didn’t try and keep his visit quiet.

He was accompanied by his ex-wife, Sarah Ferguson, and eldest daughter Princess Beatrice and her fiancé Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi. Following the visit, Xiaoming tweeted, “Her Majesty The Queen sent an encouraging message to President Xi and Chinese people: At the critical time of fighting #coronavirus, I express my sincere sympathy for Chinese people, and pray for the speedy control and victory over the virus. My wife and I invited Duke of York and his family to our residence and celebrated Chinese New Year.”

Considering Prince Andrew’s current status and Buckingham Palace’s refusal to comment on the visit, we don’t think the remaining senior royals are too pleased about this. In fact, though Prince Andrew celebrates his 60th birthday on February 19, councils across the U.K. have been forced to reconsider their flag-flying policy.