>>> Three-month-old coronavirus patient successfully treated

>>> Vietnam successfully treats 14 Covid-19 infection cases

>>> Vietnam develops effective treatment regimen for Covid-19: health official

The latest successfully cured cases are P.T.T and N.T.T.D, the mother and sister of N.T.D, respectively. N.T.D was among the eight workers of Nihon Plast Vietnam Co. Ltd who attended a training course in China’s Wuhan City – the epicentre of the global coronavirus outbreak. The worker was found to be infected with coronavirus and was hospitalised. She recovered and was discharged from hospital on February 10.

N.T.D’s 42-year-old mother and 16-year-old sister tested positive for the virus on February 6 and were then admitted to the Quang Ha Regional General Clinic in Binh Xuyen District, Vinh Phuc Province.

Thus, Quang Ha Clinic has successfully isolated and treated four local people infected with Covid-19. Previously, on February 18, Vinh Phuc Department of Health announced the curing of two patients at the clinic.

Police forces check people's body temperature at the Son Loi quarantine checkpoint, Son Loi Commune, Binh Xuyen District, Vinh Phuc Province. (Photo: NDO/Duc Tung)



So far, 10 confirmed cases from Vinh Phuc have been cured, including four cases at Quang Ha Clinic. The remaining positive cases from Vinh Phuc have also been treated successfully at central-level hospitals.

Earlier, on Thursday morning (February 20), a three-month-old baby from Vinh Phuc, Vietnam’s youngest Covid-19 patient, was successfully treated and released from the National Children’s Hospital. Her mother's health is also stable, without Covid-19 infection.

All patients announced to be cured will continue to be monitored and screened for health after being released to their localities.

The latest release of patients has left only one Covid-19 infection case still in hospital in Vinh Phuc, N.T.D’s father.

Among the 16 Covid-19 confirmed cases in Vietnam so far, 11 were in Vinh Phuc. Up until now, 15 patients have been announced successfully cured and 14 have been discharged from hospital. Furthermore, no new cases have been reported in Vinh Phuc or the country over the past seven days.

* On February 20, INOAC Living Vietnam Co. Ltd. donated 20,000 free medical masks to Vinh Phuc Province to supplement necessary supplies in the efforts to prevent and control Covid-19. Previously, Vina Korea Co. Ltd. and Shinwon Ebenzer Vietnam Co. Ltd. announced their dedication to prioritising their production lines and labour resources to promptly produce 410,000 cloth masks to support the province in the Covid-19 fight.

Representatives of Vinh Phuc provincial authorities receive free masks donated by INOAC Living Vietnam Co. Ltd. (Photo: NDO/Duc Tung)



* Vinh Phuc authorities have decided to continue to let local students be off from school until the end of February. This is the fourth time Vinh Phuc informed local students to leave school to prevent Covid-19 infection. Accordingly, students at all levels in the province will continue to have no school from February 23 until the end of February and will make up their academic programmes in appropriate time.

* On February 20, the Ministry of Health (MoH) ordered the tightened monitoring of Vietnamese citizens recently returning from China in the face of Covid-19.

In a dispatch, the ministry requested authorities in cities and provinces nationwide to closely follow the Prime Minister’s orders on Covid-19 prevention and control and conduct quarantine for people and vehicles of the aforementioned cases to promptly detect suspected infections.

The receipt and quarantine of Vietnamese citizens from China also need to comply with orders of the PM and guidance of the ministry.

* On the same day, the Hanoi Department of Health assigned the heads of its affiliated medical facilities to proactively approve the contractor selection plan for the bidding package in purchasing drugs to prevent Covid-19 and ensure the availability and timely supply of sufficient medicines needed for the prevention and control of Covid-19 in the capital city.

Spraying disinfectants for the third time at Thang Long Primary School in Hoan Kiem District, Hanoi. (Photo: NDO/Minh Ha)



The Hanoi Department of Industry and Trade has developed a plan to ensure the supply of goods to serve the needs of local residents amidst the complicated Covid-19 epidemic, with the volume of goods to be stockpiled increasing from 30-50% compared to normal needs of local people in a month.

* On February 20, the Vingroup Innovation Foundation (VINIF), Vingroup Big Data Institute and the Ministry of Science and Technology signed a sponsorship worth nearly VND20 billion for three research projects on quick response to Covid-19.

This is the first time the Ministry of Science and Technology has mobilised social resources to carry out unexpected research tasks in the context of the complicated development of the Covid-19 epidemic. Vingroup is also the first private enterprise to join hands with the State in combating the disease and protecting public health.

Medical staff from Ba Don Town Health Centre (Quang Binh Province) spray chemicals to prevent Covid-19 infection. (Photo: NDO)



According to the MoH, there are currently 28 Covid-19 suspected patients in isolation and under closely monitor in Vietnam. In addition, 1,538 cases of people in normal health without fever and cough are also in isolation as they have had close contact with people suspected of Covid-19 infection.

As of 11 am on February 21, 76,727 people worldwide have contracted Covid-19 in 30 countries, territories and the cruise ship Diamond Princess, with 2,247 deaths. In mainland China alone, 75,465 people have been infected and 2,236 people died. Notably, the Republic Korea was the latest country to suffer a fatality due to Covid-19.