CLOSE Taughannock Falls, near Ithaca, is the tallest waterfall east of the Mississippi.

Cornell University has banned student travel to mainland China because of the coronavirus.

Following the recommendations of the CDC, the U.S. Department of State and International SOS, the university has designated China as an elevated-risk destination.

Faculty and staff who want to travel to mainland China must obtain approval from Cornell's International Travel and Response Team.

“While there are currently no reported cases of the virus in New York state, it is important that we are prepared,” Sharon McMullen, assistant vice president of student and campus life for health and wellbeing, told the Cornell Chronicle. “Cornell Health has procedures in place to quickly identify anyone who might require evaluation and care for coronavirus, as well as an operational plan in the event of a national outbreak.”

Cornell University Provost Michael Kolikoff said in a statement, "The university continues to monitor the situation to ensure the health and well-being of our community."

Binghamton University has put university-funded travel to China on hold, as well as university-sanctioned education-abroad travel to China by university faculty, students and staff.

Two people were tested for coronavirus in Broome County. The test results for both of the patients were negative.

A statement from the university mentions that individuals planning travel to China not connected with university business or programs should review U.S. Department of State and CDC advisories, and be aware that anyone returning from China may be subject to screening and public health measures.

"We continue to work in cooperation with the Broome County Health Department to monitor the situation, and remind everyone to follow all recommended health and safety habits," said Binghamton University President Harvey Stenger and Donald Nieman, BU executive vice president for academic affairs, in a statement. "... We also know that many members of the Binghamton community are deeply concerned about family, friends and colleagues in China and other locations where the coronavirus has spread."

"Our thoughts are with them at this difficult time, and we sincerely hope that efforts to bring the disease under control are successful and that loved ones are able to return to normal lives," the statement continues. "...As this outbreak evolves organizations including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization continue to grapple with it, Binghamton University will continue to support members of our community to the best of our ability."

More: Cornell Orchards Store to close on Jan. 31; future uncertain

More: Tompkins deputies arrest man and woman believed to be responsible for several burglaries

More: Wizarding Weekend in Ithaca, which started as a Harry Potter celebration, will not be held in 2020

Follow Matt Steecker on Twitter @OnTheStecord. Support our journalism and become a digital subscriber today. Click here for our special offers.

Read or Share this story: https://www.ithacajournal.com/story/news/local/2020/01/30/coronavirus-cornell-bans-some-travel-china-binghamton-u-considers-ban/2857990001/