The goal of this article is to teach you how to use price to earnings ratios (P/E ratios). We'll show how you can use Changsha Broad Homes Industrial Group Co., Ltd.'s (HKG:2163) P/E ratio to inform your assessment of the investment opportunity. Based on the last twelve months, Changsha Broad Homes Industrial Group's P/E ratio is 6.30. That is equivalent to an earnings yield of about 15.9%.

View our latest analysis for Changsha Broad Homes Industrial Group

How Do You Calculate A P/E Ratio?

The formula for price to earnings is:

Price to Earnings Ratio = Share Price (in reporting currency) รท Earnings per Share (EPS)

Or for Changsha Broad Homes Industrial Group:

P/E of 6.30 = CNY8.04 (Note: this is the share price in the reporting currency, namely, CNY ) รท CNY1.28 (Based on the trailing twelve months to December 2018.)

Is A High Price-to-Earnings Ratio Good?

A higher P/E ratio means that buyers have to pay a higher price for each CNY1 the company has earned over the last year. All else being equal, it's better to pay a low price -- but as Warren Buffett said, 'It's far better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair company at a wonderful price'.

Does Changsha Broad Homes Industrial Group Have A Relatively High Or Low P/E For Its Industry?

The P/E ratio indicates whether the market has higher or lower expectations of a company. We can see in the image below that the average P/E (9.4) for companies in the construction industry is higher than Changsha Broad Homes Industrial Group's P/E.

SEHK:2163 Price Estimation Relative to Market, February 7th 2020 More

This suggests that market participants think Changsha Broad Homes Industrial Group will underperform other companies in its industry. Many investors like to buy stocks when the market is pessimistic about their prospects. You should delve deeper. I like to check if company insiders have been buying or selling.

How Growth Rates Impact P/E Ratios

Generally speaking the rate of earnings growth has a profound impact on a company's P/E multiple. That's because companies that grow earnings per share quickly will rapidly increase the 'E' in the equation. And in that case, the P/E ratio itself will drop rather quickly. And as that P/E ratio drops, the company will look cheap, unless its share price increases.

Changsha Broad Homes Industrial Group's 160% EPS improvement over the last year was like bamboo growth after rain; rapid and impressive. And earnings per share have improved by 30% annually, over the last three years. So we'd absolutely expect it to have a relatively high P/E ratio.

Don't Forget: The P/E Does Not Account For Debt or Bank Deposits

One drawback of using a P/E ratio is that it considers market capitalization, but not the balance sheet. So it won't reflect the advantage of cash, or disadvantage of debt. In theory, a company can lower its future P/E ratio by using cash or debt to invest in growth.

Such expenditure might be good or bad, in the long term, but the point here is that the balance sheet is not reflected by this ratio.

Is Debt Impacting Changsha Broad Homes Industrial Group's P/E?

Changsha Broad Homes Industrial Group has net debt equal to 42% of its market cap. While that's enough to warrant consideration, it doesn't really concern us.

The Verdict On Changsha Broad Homes Industrial Group's P/E Ratio

Changsha Broad Homes Industrial Group trades on a P/E ratio of 6.3, which is below the HK market average of 9.9. The EPS growth last year was strong, and debt levels are quite reasonable. The low P/E ratio suggests current market expectations are muted, implying these levels of growth will not continue.