Jamayne Feast, 14, became an overnight Tik Tok sensation, but right in the midst of lucrative negotiations with producers and agents, the social media company shut down his account.

Jamayne Feast found extraordinary internet fame when he started the viral trend #FliFlaFlo on TikTok.

Within two weeks, the 14-year-old Cantabrian had almost 800,000 followers on the growing social media platform and was in discussions with agents, managers and producers who were offering lucrative deals to make the most of his digital following.

But all of that was suddenly taken from him this week, when TikTok deleted his account.

CHRIS SKELTON/STUFF Jamayne Feast, 14, had planned to use his fame to help others and wanted to pay for his mum's surgery. But TikTok removed his account.

​Jamayne was due to release new music next week, which he worked on with a French producer, but he no longer has the following to make that viable.

Other deals were offering the teenager thousands of dollars a month. His mum, Tai Feast, says one company offered Jamayne a streaming deal worth $5000 a month.

With his first pay check, Jamayne says he was planning to help fund his mother's back surgery – but that will have to wait.

Since giving birth to twins 10 months ago, she has been unable to return to work due to back pain.

"We can't afford it at the moment. If I did make the money, that would be the first thing I'd do. I just want to use TikTok to be a positive role model," he says.

His viral video was recorded with two friends, as they sung Flee Fly Flo in a capella during the school holidays.

"We were just doing it for fun, and we posted it and my phone just started going off, like every second there was a notification coming through," he recalls.

CHRIS SKELTON/STUFF Jamayne Feast, 14, found International fame over the school holidays for a video he posted on TikTok

The video was posted early in January and clocked up millions of views, with other users doing their own versions of the song.

Jamayne's fans then started following him on Instagram, where he has 26,000 followers on an account he rarely used before.

The sudden attention was exciting for the year 10 student, who had never sought fame in the first place.

His mum, Tai, says she never knew how well Jamayne could sing until she saw the video.

"We didn't expect him to get famous with music, sport, maybe," she says. He represents Canterbury in rugby league, touch and union.

"TikTok is a way for him and his friends to express themselves, I didn't really know he could sing that well until his video suddenly went viral," she says.

But on Wednesday Jamayne's account and video was suddenly deleted from the platform.

TikTok said he had breached "community standards", but Jamayne and Tai say he's done nothing wrong and they want an explanation. TikTok has been approached for comment.

Tai is certain her son did nothing wrong and says all he wanted to do with his newfound fame was help others.

"He's gutted, Jamayne is normally quite a shy person. He surrounds himself with the people he knows, but after the video he came home with a new confidence. People recognised him and respected him. He said: 'Mum! People are asking for my signature'."

Luke Nola and Friends In this episode of KEA Kids News, Coco finds out if TikTok is safe for kids. And Aliz'e explores why it matters to have your name pronounced properly.

Since launching on the global market in 2017, TikTok has undergone rapid growth over the past year. Its main audience has been teenagers, but pre-established influencers and older users have been flocking to the site in recent months.

The platform is used exclusively to post videos, comment on and share short videos.

TikTok has been developed as a way to share creative and funny videos, and allows users to add music, filters and other features to their videos.

The site is owned by a Chinese company, which operates a separate heavily censored version of the service in China. But even on its global service, TikTok has faced fierce criticism for being too heavy handed.

Kiwi model Jess Quinn hit out at TikTok, after it admitted to restricting content from disabled users and others it deemed as "vulnerable" to bullying.