A NEW exhibition which brings to life the powerful and poignant stories behind the tattoos of people in the Armed Forces opens tomorrow.

Tribute Ink, featuring photographs by Charlie Clift, showcases how the military community use tattoos to commemorate comrades.

24 Lance Corporal Josh Pickman, 27, who serves in the British Army, has a tattoo of the Latin phrase ‘In arduis fidelis’. Meaning ‘faithful in adversity, it is the motto of Pickman’s corps, the Royal Army Medical Corps Credit: Charlie Clift

24 The Essex Regiment cap badge on his arm commemorates the regiment his ancestors served in, connecting him to his family’s military past Credit: Charlie Clift

24 LH Dani Cummings, Royal Navy, 29. In Afghanistan, she was based in Kandahar working with the local police forces Credit: Charlie Clift

24 To mark her 21st birthday while there, she designed the swallow and anchor tattoo on her back 'to symbolise being away for a big birthday and to always remember where I had been'. The swallow is a centuries-old naval symbol worn to remind the sailor that regardless of how far they travel, they will always come home, and the anchor represents safety in rough seas

24 Sergeant Johnson Beharry VC, 40, who serves in the British Army, was awarded a Victoria Cross, the most prestigious medal awarded to members of the British military, in 2005 for two instances of extreme heroism when serving in Iraq

24 Beharry loaned his medal to the Imperial War Museum but got an image of it tattooed so that he could always carry it with him

24 Flight Lieutenant Natasha Kenny, 25, who serves with the Royal Air Force at RAF Halton has a tattoo of a Spitfire on her arm to symbolise the reasons she joined the RAF Credit: Charlie Clift

24 She said: 'Learning about the importance of air power during WW2 sparked my passion for the military and inspired me to find out more about the armed forces.' She also has the RAF's motto, 'per ardua ad astra', which translates as 'through adversity to the stars' Credit: Charlie Clift

24 Paul Glazebrook, 35, Ex-Royal Green Jackets. Glazebrook’s backpiece commemorates six of the friends he lost in Iraq and Afghanistan

24 Five of them died in 2007 while serving with Glazebrook on Operation TELIC 9 with the Royal Green Jackets. The sixth, Tom Keogh was killed in 2010 while deployed in Afghanistan with the newly formed Rifles

24 Staff Sergeant Tom Shrewsbury, 51,, British Army, Royal Engineers. In 2012 Tom got the line 'I am the captain of my soul and the master of my fate' tattoo onto both arms

24 He got poppies added to his arm as a way of commemorating not only his father but comrades he lost whilst serving on operations

24 Sergeant Declan O’Keefe, 38, Royal Air Force. O’Keefe’s tattoo remembers the friends who died while serving in the RAF alongside him

24 Their names are accompanied by the motto of his squadron, ‘nunquam non paratus’, which translates to ‘never unprepared’

24 Staff Corporal Lawrence Sabatini, 34, British Army, Household Cavalry. Sabatini, a South African, has tattoos featuring traditional symbols of Remembrance and illustrations that remember all those who have died in service

24 Jack Pilkington joined the Army as a 15 year old boy-soldier in 1963 and had his first tattoo within a year. Over the course of his 19 years of service in the UK, Hong Kong, Germany, Cyprus and Northern Ireland he collected 14 tattoos in total. On his right arm is a lifebelt with a dagger through it – it has Hong Kong written on it, as well as the Union Flag and his regimental guidon (flag). On his left arm is a Chinese dragon, a symbol of service in Hong Kong that spans centuries. He also had a heart with a dagger through it and ‘Mum’, but when she died, he had it covered with an angel to mark her passing Credit: Matt Shelley

24 RAF Veteran Craig Daniell, 29, serving as a Senior Aircraftman. Daniell completed two tours of Afghanistan, but when he was injured by a blast, his time in the RAF was cut short and he was medically discharged

24 The tattoos on his legs tell stories of his service and remember the sacrifices that he and others made

24 Senior Aircraftman Bethan Dunning, 24, Royal Air Force

24 She has a penguin inked on her left thigh to remember her tour of the Falklands last year Credit: Charlie Clift

24 Leading Diver Michael ‘Dinga’ Bell, 29, Fleet Diving Unit, Royal Navy Credit: Charlie Clift

24 Bell, and two friends he served with, got matching tattoos during their first deployment together, marking the strong bond between them Credit: Charlie Clift

24 Corporal of Horse Peni Qio, British Army, Household Cavalry. The style of Qio’s tattoo is inspired by traditional Fijian ‘tatau,’ like those first seen by Royal Navy sailors in 1769. In Fijian culture tattoos tell stories, record status, and show belonging Credit: Charlie Clift

24 Ex- Royal Marine, Matthew Tomlinson CGC MC, 52. Dedicated to those who lost their lives while under his command, Tomlinson’s tattoo depicts the silhouette of a bugler from the Royal Marines playing ‘The Last Post’. On the steps leading to the gates are the names of the fallen Royal Marines and US Marines with whom he served and commanded in both Iraq and Afghanistan. It also includes the name of Lieutenant Colonel Thorneloe, who was killed while commanding the Welsh Guards during an operation in Afghanistan in 2009

Current service personnel featured include the Royal Navy's Leading Hand Dani Cunnings, 29, who designed a swallow and anchor on her back while she was deployed in Afghanistan to symbolise

where she had been and the sense of home.

Also featured is Army veteran Paul Glazebrook, 36 who has a back piece with six dog tags containing the names of fallen comrades he served alongside on tours of Iraq and Afghanistan.

Meanwhile Lance Corporal Josh Pickman, 27, who is a combat medic technician with 1st Battalion Irish Guards, has tattoos that honour his own family ancestors who served in the British Army during the First World War.

most read in news BUG EXPLOSION UK coronavirus cases soar to 273 in biggest leap yet after 100k dead warning LAGS LET OUT Prisoners could be released and bin collections scrapped due to coronavirus Exclusive DEAD MAN'S CRIES Woman shouted 'you f***ing c***' as stabbed man bled to death in street Live Blog VIRUS BREAKDOWN NHS may be forced to CANCEL operations as UK coronavirus cases hits 273 MEET PRAY LOVE Meghan sees Queen for the 1st time since Megxit as Harry takes her to church FAIRYTALE PRINCESS Kate leaves Waterstones with full bag after asking for children's books

Photographer Charlie Clift said: "It was a huge privilege to be able to work so closely with the Armed Forces and veterans and hear their stories first hand."

The exhibition at the National Army Museum runs from January 31 to April 17 before touring the country.