Many smartphone makers have introduced their foldable smartphones in the past year, including Samsung Galaxy Fold, Huawei Mate X, and Motorola RAZR. However, LG has not yet revealed anything officially regarding the launch of a similar phone from the company.

Instead of launching a smartphone with a foldable display, the company introduced LG G8X ThinQ Dual Screen which comes with a detachable dual display design. While the company has confirmed the development of a foldable phone and has even patent a few phones with a similar design, nothing has materialised so far.

After patenting smartphone with a pull-out display and roll-up display, LG has now patented a new smartphone design which features a wrap-around display. This seems similar to the Mi MIX Alpha but with flexible display and more screen-to-body ratio.

The patent for the wrap-around display smartphone from LG also includes several images, which showcase that apart from a thick frame border at the top, there are very thin borders on the bottom, left and right side.

The top bezel holds dual camera sensors along with an LED flash. While there’s no border on the right side, the screen continues towards that side and wraps-around the back panel. Interestingly, there will be no rear-facing cameras given that the display extends all the way to the back panel. Instead, it seems that the front-facing sensors would double up as the rear cameras.

From the documentation, it is not yet clear how the display is being held in place but its likely because of some magnetic mechanism. It is also possible to remove the extending flexible screen from the housing by pressing a button.

When the device is closed, there are two displays on the device — one on the front side and the other at the back. Once the device is opened, the phone turns into a tablet with a bigger display. The speaker grille is visible on the top as well as bottom, along with a microphone. There’s a microUSB port and a 3.5mm headphone jack at the bottom and a power button at the top side.

Mobile World Congress 2020 is scheduled to kick-off in Barcelona, Spain next month and Samsung and Huawei will be introducing their second-generation foldable devices — Samsung Galaxy Z Flip and Huawei Mate Xs. It remains to be seen if LG takes the stage to introduce experimental smartphones at the MWC 2020.

(Source)