TheBigWobble.org

Wednesday, 22 January 2020

staff member checks passengers’ body temperature at Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan, capital of central China’s Hubei Province, Jan. 22, 2020. Chinese health authorities announced Wednesday that 440 confirmed cases of pneumonia caused by the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) had been reported in 13 provincial-level regions in the country by the end of Tuesday. Strict measures have been taken to prevent the spread of the virus. A total of 15 thermal detectors have been set up in the Wuhan Tianhe International Airport, and 20 thermal detectors have been installed in three major railway stations of the city. (Xinhua/Xiao Yijiu)

Chinese health authorities announced Wednesday that 440 confirmed cases of pneumonia caused by the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) had been reported in 13 provincial-level regions in the country by the end of Tuesday. According to Prof Neil Ferguson’s table, (see below) of the MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis at Imperial College London, 440 confirmed cases is the equivalent of almost 20,000 unconfirmed cases.

The cases had resulted in nine deaths, all in central China’s Hubei Province, said Li Bin, deputy director of the National Health Commission, at a press conference. Altogether 149 new confirmed cases were reported Tuesday, Li added. Overseas, one case has been confirmed in Japan, three in Thailand, and one in the Republic of Korea. A total of 2,197 close contacts have been traced, figures from the commission show. Among them, 1,394 are under medical observation while 765 others have been discharged.

Meanwhile, hundreds of millions of Chinese are on the MOVE, celebrating their Spring Holiday, new year festivities.

Published 5 days ago 45 confirmed cases was the equivalent of up to 2,000 cases, Today, 440 confirmed cases, is, therefore, the equivalent of almost 20,000 unconfirmed cases according to Prof Neil Ferguson

According to Prof Neil Ferguson’s table, (see below) of the MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis at Imperial College London, 440 confirmed cases is the equivalent of almost 20,000 unconfirmed cases.

The number of people already infected by the mystery virus emerging in China is far greater than official figures suggest, scientists have told the BBC. There have been 45 laboratory-confirmed cases of the new virus, but UK experts estimate the figure is closer to 1,700. Two people are known to have died from the virus, which appeared in Wuhan city in December. “I am substantially more concerned than I was a week ago,” disease outbreak scientist, Prof Neil Ferguson, said. The work was conducted by the MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis at Imperial College London, which advises bodies including the UK government and the World Health Organization.

The Rest…HERE