Sign up to FREE email alerts from HullLive - Daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

The concept of an all-you-can-eat cheese buffet might seem unappetising to some people.

However, for one cheese-loving reporter for MyLondon it was the epitome of food heaven.

Sian Elvin admits that cheese is her food weakness, which was why she was delighted to be invited to an all-you-can-eat cheese party.

But was the London-based tasting event as 'gouda' as she hoped? Or was it too pretentious and cheesy?



This is what she discovered...

(Image: MyLondon/Sian Elvin)

When I entered the top floor of the pub, what immediately struck me was how relaxed and unfussy the whole event was. I usually expect food tasting like this to be pretentious; yet it was anything but.

Everyone has the chance to relax and purchase a glass of wine (or three) before the tasting begins.

"CHEESE!" is shouted and everyone rushes to the buffet table to tuck in.

I found myself at the back of the queue and started to panic, but I needn't have worried because there was more than enough cheese for everyone to have seconds - even thirds and fourths.

The way the tasting works is each event has a theme - the one I attended was Scottish cheese - and there are eight different types of cheese to be tasted blind.

They are numbered one to eight and you can try and guess what they are or work out which ones are your particular favourites (obviously, I liked them all).

There is plenty of bread, crackers, fruit and different varieties of chutney to accompany your cheese.

My friends, who are well-versed in these events, advised me to avoid the bread as it would mean I couldn't eat as much cheese. They were right.

(Image: MyLondon/Sian Elvin)

After loading ourselves with all kinds of delicious cheeses - and losing count of how many times we went up to the buffet, and ordered more wine - the big reveal was made.

Organisers Homage2Fromage went through the numbered cheeses and explained what they were, where they came from and gave some information about each of them.

If you don't drink too much wine to forget, it means you end up going home with a bit more knowledge about cheese.

Homage2Fromage was founded in Leeds in 2011 by cheese obsessives Nick Copland and Vickie Rogerson and now takes place in various locations across the country.

Every cheese tasting event is different; this one in particular was for Scottish cheeses.

There were eight different flavours to sample which have to be tasted blind in order for you to discover your favourite based on taste and smell alone.

After filling up on cheese and wine, and formulating your own opinions on the samples, experts talk you through the numbered cheeses.

The organisers for Sian's event, Homage2Fromage, explained what the different cheese were as well as how they were made and where they came from.

Homage2Fromage was founded in Leeds in 2011 by cheese lovers Nick Copland and Vickie Rogerson; they host tasting events in various locations across the country.

If you want to attend one of their cheese-tasting events, you can check if there is an event near you by clicking here.