Australians are set to miss out on being able to work in the United Kingdom without the need for a work visa under a new trade deal.

The UK is set to leave the European Union by the end of January following Conservative Prime Minister Boris Johnson's resounding election victory last month fought over Brexit.

His government is set to pursue a bilateral free trade agreement with Australia, that would eliminate import tariffs.

Australians are set to miss out on being able to work in the UK without the need for a work visa under a new trade deal (pictured are Australian women at London's The Church nightclub)

The UK is set to leave the European Union by the end of January following Conservative Prime Minister Boris Johnson's resounding election victory last month fought over Brexit

Such a deal, however, would be unlikely to give Australians the right to live and work in the UK longer-term without a visa, like they do when travelling to New Zealand.

Australian Trade Minister Simon Birmingham has confirmed Australia would not be pushing for special work rights as part of free trade agreement (FTA) negotiations this year.

'Negotiations for an FTA between Australia and the UK will prioritise enhancing trade with a market that is already our eighth-largest trading partner,' he said in a statement.

'Work and visa settings may also form part of discussions but it is important to appreciate that there is a huge spectrum of grey between the black and white of no movement or unfettered movement.

'Once talks are launched with the UK we will work through all of these issues in the usual way.'

Former Labor foreign minister Bob Carr said the UK was too small a trading partner to pursue a free trade deal with.

'On trade the UK is not generating enough new demand to make it a big part of our future,' he told Daily Mail Australia.

'Trade with China, as it draws hundreds of millions more into its middle class, is the big opportunity for both UK and Australia, not trade with one another.'

Since June, Australians travelling to the UK have been entitled to cruise through the ePassport gates at British airports, including London's Heathrow, saving them at least an hour in queuing.

Nonetheless, Mr Carr said Australian travellers were still treated with less priority than EU passport holders.

'Talk of an Anglosphere or a big bold free trade deal means nothing to Australians when we have to wait in a queue for an hour at Heathrow while EU passport holders get waved through,' he said.

University of New South Wales trade economist Tim Harcourt said it was better to separate the issues of work visas and import tariffs when negotiating a free trade agreement.

The UK's departure from the European Union would be unlikely to to give Australians the right to live in the UK without a visa, like they do when travelling to New Zealand (pictured are Australian ex-pats at The Church nightclub in London)

'The FTA should be more focused on bread-and-butter trade issues, market access,' he told Daily Mail Australia on Monday.

Under existing arrangements, Australians can visit the UK for six months as a tourist without a visa.

A visa, however, is required to do paid or unpaid work.

European foreigners working visa-free in the UK was a major factor in the leave campaign securing 51.9 per cent of the vote in the 2016 Brexit referendum - ending a four-decade membership of the EU.

Trade Minister Simon Birmingham has confirmed Australia would not be pushing for special work rights as part of trade negotiations

Until 1967, Australians still carried British passports.

During that decade, the likes of the late writer Clive James, comedian Barry Humphries and feminist pioneer Germaine Greer were among a bevy of Australian ex-pats who made a name for themselves in London.

From Federation in 1901 until the mid-1960s, Great Britain was Australia's biggest trading partner until it moved to join the European Economic Community.

The UK was Australia's eighth biggest trading partner in 2018 with a market share of just 3.2 per cent, Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade data showed.

China, by comparison, was Australia's biggest, two-way trading partner with a market share of 25.2 per cent, ahead of Japan (10.1 per cent), the United States (8.7 per cent), South Korea (4.8 per cent), Singapore (3.8 per cent), India (3.6 per cent) and New Zealand (3.4 per cent).

Australia is party to 11 free trade deals that eliminate import tariffs between trading partners.

Bilateral arranagements have been signed with New Zealand (1983), Singapore (2003), the US (2005), Thailand (2005), Chile (2009), Malaysia (2013), South Korea (2014), Japan (2015) and China (2015).

Separate multilateral arrangements were made with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in 2010 and the Trans-Pacific Partnership in 2018.