The Dragon's Den-style project set-up by Prince Andrew has removed the the Duke of York's name from its website, amid backlash from sponsors over his friendship with paedophile billionaire Jeffrey Epstein.

Pitch@Palace, founded by Andrew, is planning on launching a rebrand in the Spring as it further distances itself from the royal.

It has already moved its base from Buckingham Palace to a new office after the prince's car crash Newsnight interview in November where he defended his links to Epstein.

The firm's website previously welcomed visitors with the words: 'The Duke of York founded Pitch@Palace to provide a platform to amplify and accelerate the work of entrepreneurs.'

However, that has now been replaced with a note saying that Pitch@Palace is taking the first part of 2020 to 'refresh the brand'.

Prince Andrew pictured as he hosts a Pitch@Palace event at Buckingham Palace in June 2019

Andrew, centre, with entrepreneurs at a Pitch@Palace event - the organisation has now removed the Duke's name from its website

Several pictures showing Andrew have also been removed from the website.

Barclays, KPMG and Standard Chartered have also already withdrawn funding from the project, which will be known just as Pitch going forward.

The British branch of Pitch@Palace is being wound up - though its global operations will remain active.

The potential future role of the prince in the initiative is unknown.

Pitch@Palace Global was designed as a commercial business controlled by the Duke and — according to the company's latest accounts — it posted a profit of £576,000 for the year ended March 31, 2019.

The Dragons' Den-style business was set up by Andrew in 2014 and it brokers deals between tech start-ups and wealthy investors.

Barclays, KPMG and Standard Chartered have also already withdrawn funding from the project after Andrew's disastrous Newsnight interview

The Duke of York with Sarah, the Duchess of York, third and second from right, Princess Beatrice, far right, her fiance Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi, far left, and the Chinese ambassador Liu Xiaoming and his wife Hu Pinghua last week

Andrew resigned from his royal duties in November, following the disastrous BBC interview, but opted to keep hold of his Pitch@Palace business.

The accounts for the company, whose registered office is at Buckingham Palace, were signed off last week by Amanda Thirsk, who remains a director at Pitch@Palace Global despite resigning as Prince Andrew's private secretary earlier in January.

Three of its other directors, however, resigned last month over the Andrew-Epstein scandal.

It comes after the Duke carried a message to the Chinese government from the Queen on Friday expressing sympathy for those affected by the deadly coronavirus outbreak.

It was delivered when he attended a dinner hosted by the Chinese ambassador to Britain, Liu Xiaoming.

The meeting, recorded in photographs posted to Liu's Twitter account, marks one of the Duke's first major appearances since he withdrew from public duties.

Pressure is mounting for the Prince to co-operate with the FBI, which is investigating the late financier's crimes in the US.