Leaders assess learning in Port Arthur

Port Arthur ISD Superintendent Mark Porterie talks with Sen. Brandon Creighton and Lamar State College Port Arthur President Betty J. Reynard as they gather for a State of Education meeting and luncheon held at LSCPA Tuesday. Students, educators, representatives from PAISD and LSCPA, local businesses and elected officials came together for the event. Photo taken Tuesday, February 11, 2020 Kim Brent/The Enterprise less Port Arthur ISD Superintendent Mark Porterie talks with Sen. Brandon Creighton and Lamar State College Port Arthur President Betty J. Reynard as they gather for a State of Education meeting and luncheon held at ... more Photo: Kim Brent / The Enterprise Photo: Kim Brent / The Enterprise Image 1 of / 40 Caption Close Leaders assess learning in Port Arthur 1 / 40 Back to Gallery

PORT ARTHUR — Finances, diversity and stability were the themes of the annual state of education speech hosted by the Port Arthur Education Foundation on Tuesday.

The featured keynote speaker, state Sen. Brandon Creighton, R-Conroe, touted recent legislative changes that will keep more money in local districts, while calling on stakeholders across the state to come together to solve issues facing teachers and students.

“We were able to invest $11.5 billion in public education this last year,” Creighton said. “We reduced our reliance on what is called Robin Hood, where local tax money is taken from school districts, sent to Austin and then sent all over the state to other districts that need a lift up, that need help.”

Under the new financing formula, Creighton said Port Arthur alone will be able to keep between $12 million to $13 million that would have gone to other districts under former policies.

“And that is your tax money that is contributed to schools,” he said. “And then in Austin we increased the state share of public education to lift up those in districts that need it the most that don’t have property-wealthy areas or industry or other tax-base to rely on.”

The recapture system, often referred to as “Robin Hood,” redistributes funds from schools in areas with high property value to those in areas with low property value.

Port Arthur Independent School District Superintendent Mark Porterie highlighted the district’s clean audit and diversity in students in an impassioned speech.

“When you talk about diversity, we put another definition to diversity in Port Arthur,” Porterie said. “Let me tell you this. We have students from Mexico, we have students from El Salvador, we have students from Guatemala, Nicaragua, Cuba, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Philippines, Senegal, China, India, Italy, Venezuela, Puerto Rico, Bolivia, Ecuador and Israel. Now who is more diverse than the Port Arthur Independent School District?”

Porterie touched on the importance of Career and Technical Education, a key focus of the event with industry professionals providing financial support to the foundation.

Students from those programs and Lamar State College Port Arthur lined the room with presentations and examples of what they experience and work on in their programs

A team from the Computer Technology class at Memorial High School presented a “very amazing, beautiful and colorful computer,” as described by Ariana Toson, a senior at the school.

“I think learning these skills in high school is very important, because everything these days is based off technology,” Toson said before the speeches began. “Whether it be your phone, your home PC or your car.”

Other programs on display included nursing, where students can graduate as a certified nursing assistant and join the workforce right away.

Jesus Medina, who is part of the automotive technology program in PAISD said the best part of taking advantage of career and technology courses in school is that they are free.

Betty Reynard, the president of Lamar State College Port Arthur, spoke about state accolades the college has received and noted upcoming renovations to several buildings on campus.

Creighton closed out his speech by calling for everyone to come together to ensure the success of education in Port Arthur and in Texas.

“The thing that we have to promote … all of us collectively … is that we are going to stay at the table for our kids,” he said. “We cannot be stagnant, we cannot sit still, we cannot be idle, and we cannot say with regard to any individual child ‘that’s just the way it is, we can’t do any better.’”

isaac.windes@hearstnp.com

twitter.com/isaacdwindes