Queensland Health has confirmed the Gold Coast’s first coronavirus patient flew on a Tiger Airways flight from Melbourne to the Gold Coast on Monday.

The 44-year-old Chinese National was confirmed to have the deadly virus overnight and is currently in isolation at the Gold Coast University Hospital, where he is in a stable condition.

Queensland Chief Health Officer Dr Jeannette Young said the man was part of a tour group of nine people, including children, who were travelling together on the flight.

ARTICLE CONTINUES AFTER THIS ADVERTISEMENT



“There are eight other people who were in that tour group and they are all currently in isolation in the Gold Coast University Hospital. Four of them are unwell and being tested today,” she told reporters on Thursday.

“We’ll get those results later today. Four of them are well at this time, but we will continue to monitor them.”

It’s understood there were around 150 – 200 people on board Tiger Air flight TT566 which touched down around 8pm on January 27, with Queensland Health and Tiger Airways currently working to contact all passengers.

“Those passengers sitting in the rows in front and behind of this cohort, we will be asking them to go into isolation,” Ms Young said.

She said anyone who feels unwell should contact 13 HEALTH to receive advice about what steps to take.

Tigerair also confirmed they were working to inform passengers and staff.

“Tigerair Australia has been made aware by the Queensland Health department that a passenger travelling on a flight from Melbourne to the Gold Coast has tested positive for coronavirus,” a spokesperson for the airline said.

“We are now in the process of contacting the passengers and our crew on this flight to notify them so they can visit their GP for testing.

“The safety of our passengers and our crew is always our number one priority and we are working closely with the Queensland Health department on this matter.”

Before being hospitalised, the man spent time at a Broadbeach hotel, with authorities now trying to work out who he may have come into contact with.

“We are working with the hotel management to go and speak to other guests and staff in that hotel,” Ms Young said.

“He was in the hotel for less than 24 hours so we are just working through the absolute specifics into who he has come into contact with, and for how long.”

The man initially came from Wuhan, which is the epicentre of the coronavirus, before flying to Melbourne via Singapore where he spent five days before travelling to the Gold Coast.

He is the seventh person to have tested positive to coronavirus in Australia.