Despite concerns over the spread of the novel coronavirus, thousands of couples, some in face masks, tied the knot in a mass wedding this past week in South Korea.

The ceremony was held at the Cheongshim Peace World Centre in Gapyeongin near the capital Seoul, according to Fox News, and went ahead despite fears the event could help spread the virus that is wreaking havoc in neighboring China.

South Korea has, so far, confirmed 24 cases of coronavirus and has already canceled festivals, graduation ceremonies and concerts in a bid to control the outbreak. Seoul has also barred entry to anyone who has recently visited Wuhan, the epicenter of the epidemic.

However, this mass wedding ceremony, held by the Family Federation for World Peace and Unification (or the Unification Church), went ahead as planned because the church said it had been "four years in the making" and was a part of the 100th anniversary of church founder Sun Myung Moon’s birth.

Thousands of couples attend a mass wedding held by the Family Federation for World Peace and Unification, aka Unification Church despite the spread of the coronavirus also known as Wuhan coronavirus on February 7, 2020, in Gapyeong-gun, South Korea (Woohae Cho/Getty Images)

The church did take precautions with regards to those attending the ceremony as followers from China were asked not to come and face masks were distributed to everyone in the 30,000-strong crowd that included 6,000 newly-weds.

However, most in attendance decided to throw caution to the wind and not wear the masks. Choi Ji-Young, 21, admitted she felt like he didn't need it. "It would be a lie if I said I was not concerned at all about the infection," he said. "But I feel like I will be protected from the virus today."

She met her husband just two months ago after they were matched by the church and hasn't looked back since. "I am overwhelmed that I am getting married today," she said.

Thousands of couples attend a mass wedding held by the Family Federation for World Peace and Unification, aka Unification Church despite the spread of the 2019 Novel Coronavirus also known as Wuhan Coronavirus on February 7, 2020, in Gapyeong-gun, South Korea (Woohae Cho/Getty Images)

Kim Chang-Seong, 27, similarly, was marrying a woman he met just 20 days ago through the church and said he was not worried about getting infected with the coronavirus because the wedding had "special meaning" for him. "By marrying a fellow church believer, I am taking a path paved by our church leaders," he explained.

Evelyne Chimfwembe flew in from Botswana to attend the ceremony with her husband of 28 years and said the fear of contracting the novel coronavirus did not bother them because she believed the ceremony was "under God's control."

The Unification movement has earned a reputation for these "mass wedding" ceremonies, which have been the signature events for their followers, dubbed "Moonies" after its founder.

People who choose to be matched by the church, like Ji-Young and Chang-Seong, have to confirm under oath that they are virgins and must agree to refrain from sexual relations with their partners for a minimum of 40 days after their wedding.

If you have a news scoop or an interesting story for us, please reach out at (323) 421-7514