

Interfax.com | Interfax news | Marriage, not family should be defined as union...

Site map

News headlines News headlines



February 03, 2020 17:56

Marriage, not family should be defined as union between man and woman in Russian Constitution - Russian Orthodox Church MOSCOW. Feb 3 (Interfax) - If the Russian Constitution defines family as a union between a man and a woman, it should talk specifically about marriage, not family, the Moscow Patriarchate said. "In the current Russian legislation, legal consequences are generated by a registered marriage. Specifically, common property of spouses arises in marriage, decisions on which of the spouses will have custody of the common underage children, as well as decisions on support for spouses and children are made after the marriage is terminated. Therefore, marriage, not family should be defined as a union between a man and a woman," Hegumeness Ksenia (Chernega), the head of the legal department of the patriarchate, told Interfax on Monday, commenting on the proposal made by Konstantin Malofeyev, deputy head of the World Russian People's Assembly, and Andrei Klishas, chairman of the Federation Council's Committee on Constitutional Legislation and State Development, that the Russian Constitution should define the concept of family as a union between a man and a woman. A family can consist of a mother and a child, a grandfather and grandchildren, she said. "But marriage in Russia is a union between a man and a woman. Therefore, if mention of such a union is to be inserted in the Russian Constitution, it is appropriate that this applies to marriage, not family," she said. av rm aa (Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru) /Interfax/ Subscription You can access a demo version of, receive more information about or subscribe to Interfax publications by filling in and returning the form below. We also have dozens of reports in the Russian language, please indicate if you are interested. Title:

----- select ----- Mr. Mrs. Ms. Miss



Phone:





E-mail:





First name:





Company:





Country:

----- select ----- Abkhazia Afghanistan Albania Algeria Andorra Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Asia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Hawaiian Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakstan Kenya Kirghizia Kiribati Korea Kuwait Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Scotland Senegal Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Tahiti Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Bahamas The Gambia Tibet Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States of America Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands Western Sahara Yemen Yugoslavia Zambia Zimbabwe Last name:





Division:





City:

Products:

Central Asia & Caucasus Business Weekly

Central Asia General Newswire

Global Gas Analytics

Interfax Via Bloomberg Terminal

Kazakhstan General Newswire

Kazakhstan Mining Weekly

Kazakhstan Oil & Gas Weekly

Natural Gas Daily

Russia & CIS Announcements

Russia & CIS Banking and Finance Weekly

Russia & CIS Business and Financial Daily

Russia & CIS Business and Financial Newswire

Russia & CIS Business and Investment Weekly

Russia & CIS Business Law Weekly

Russia & CIS Business news

Russia & CIS Defense Industry Weekly

Russia & CIS Diplomatic Panorama

Russia & CIS Energy Daily

Russia & CIS Energy Newswire

Russia & CIS Events Calendar

Russia & CIS Food and Agriculture Weekly

Russia & CIS General Newswire

Russia & CIS Headline News

Russia & CIS Insurance Weekly

Russia & CIS IT and Telecom Weekly

Russia & CIS Metals and Mining Weekly

Russia & CIS Military Daily

Russia & CIS Military Newswire

Russia & CIS Military Weekly

Russia & CIS Oil and Gas Weekly

Russia & CIS Presidential Bulletin

Russia & CIS Statistics Weekly

Russia Health & Pharmaceuticals

Russia Market Roundup

Russia Press Review

Ukraine Business Daily

Ukraine Business Weekly

Ukraine General Newswire

Please enter the digits from picture in the box below:

February 28, 2020 Belarus to keep oil refinery throughputs at 1 mln tonnes in March - dep PM Putin, Erdogan discuss Idlib over phone - Lavrov (Part 3) Russian diagnosed with coronavirus in Azerbaijan (Part 2) Delegates to Russian Athletics Federation conference elect Yurchenko its president Outbreak of violence in Idlib won't disrupt Astana process - Lavrov NATO shouldn't intervene in situation in Idlib - Luxembourgish FM Russian diagnosed with coronavirus in Azerbaijan MICEX and RTS Indexes at 14:00 MSK Syrian events hardly fall under North Atlantic Treaty's collective defense article - Lavrov Tatneft to hold AGM on June 26 Putin, Erdogan agree to consider possibility of holding summit meeting soon - Kremlin AZERBAIJAN RECORDS 1ST COVID-19 CASE, THIS IS A RUSSIAN CITIZEN COMING FROM IRAN - CORONAVIRUS RESPONSE HEADQUARTERS Russian military ready to continue efforts toward de-escalation in Syria's Idlib - Lavrov Chelyabinsk Tube Rolling Plant's RAS profit plummets 60% to 1.35 bln rubles in 2019 more headlines



Interviews

John Sullivan: President Trump charged me with improving relations between U.S. and Russia .



more New U.S. Ambassador to Russia John Sullivan, who has recently started his mission in Moscow, has given an interview to Interfax in which he speaks about priorities of his work and assesses the prospects of developing bilateral relations. . Gregory Barker: We will be closer to the assets going forward .



more The En+ Group effectively turned a new page in its corporate history in 2019. Now the group has a unique governance scheme for Russia - without a domineering shareholder and a loyal majority on the board of directors. The board chairman, Lord Gregory Barker, is convinced that the changes adopted in the framework of the plan he devised to get the company removed from the U.S. sanctions list will ultimately do the company and its shareholders good, irrespective of the deal with OFAC. Lord Barker told Interfax in an interview about the work of the new En+ board, dividends and long-term strategy. . Laurie Bristow: We want to look for ways to work constructively with Russia .



more Ambassador of the United Kingdom to Russia Laurie Bristow, who is leaving his post, has given an exclusive interview to Interfax in which he speaks about prospects of relations with Russia, arms control, the situation in Syria and surrounding Iran, as well as other topical problems on the international agenda.

more interviews

