Advertisement

It's hard enough to get one naughty child to sit down for a photo shoot, let alone 20 playful and squirmy baby pandas all at the same time.

Footage has captured the amusing moment nearly two dozen cubs and their keepers gathered for a group photo as they greeted the public at a breeding centre.

The event was organised today by the China Conservation and Research Center for the Giant Panda in Sichuan Province in celebration of the upcoming Lunar New Year.

Say cheese: 20 baby pandas and their keepers sit down for a group photo at China's Shenshuping Panda Base on Friday

Just chilling: Some cubs crawl on the the grass in front of a '2020' sign during the event in celebration of the Lunar New Year

Happy New Year: One cub leans on a tree trunk next to a window sticker made with traditional Chinese paper-cutting art

The year of the rat: Two cubs hide next to a giant stuffed rodent during the ceremony to celebrate the traditional festival

This year's Lunar New Year will fall on January 25 and ring in the year of the rat.

Caretakers had decorated a playground at the centre's Shenshuping Panda Base with red lanterns of different sizes, stuffed toys shaped after rodents, traditional paper-cutting artworks and a large sign of 2020.

After assembling in the festive venue, staff sent their best wishes to the public while holding the black-and-white bears - all born at the centre in the past 12 months.

'The baby pandas born at the China Conservation and Research Center in 2019 send New Year wishes to all people in China. We wish you a happy New Year and have all your wishes come true,' the workers shouted in unison.

Mischievous: Four baby pandas play with each other after having a group picture taken with 16 other cubs at the centre

A total of 32 cubs, 17 males and 15 females were born at the Shenshuping Panda Base last year, the establishment said

The cubs were born between May and September and are now four to seven months old, according to a post from the centre

Caretakers decorated a playground with red lanterns of different sizes, stuffed toys shaped after rodents and paper-cutting

One impatient cub immediately escaped from its keeper's grasp and dashed towards the grass after workers chanted the celebratory slogan, according to footage released by China News.

A total of 32 cubs, comprising 17 males and 15 females, were born at the Shenshuping Panda Base last year, the establishment said.

The cubs were born between May and September and are now four to seven months old.

All of them are healthy and the heaviest of all is a six-month-old female cub weighing 16 kilograms (35 pounds).