Asia's wealthiest have remained "actively involved" in the financial markets and have not rushed to the sidelines as concerns have grown over the effects of the coronavirus outbreak on the region's economy, according to Michael Blake, Union Bancaire Privee's regional head and CEO for Asia.

Activity levels among the company's ultra-high-net-worth clients were "very strong" to end the year and continued with the same intensity in January, Blake said.

"We certainly haven't seen any noticeable sort of turning off over the last couple of weeks specifically in response to the development that we're seeing with the coronavirus," Blake told the South China Morning Post.

The coronavirus outbreak, which is believed to have originated in Wuhan in Hubei province, has infected more than 75,000 people and led to at least 2,010 deaths.

To stem the spread of the virus, the Lunar New Year holiday was extended in China and public health officials in the mainland and Hong Kong have encouraged people to work from home and avoid gathering in large groups. The outbreak has raised concerns about the potential economic effects as companies, including Apple and Nike, have warned the outbreak will hurt their bottom lines and weighed on financial markets in recent weeks.

At Union Bancaire Privee, the bank's wealth managers are working from multiple offices in Hong Kong or at home. They're advising clients by FaceTime and teleconferences and deferring travel. The bank also has asked building operators for its offices in Hong Kong to institute temperature checks of all visitors.

Founded in 1969 Union Bancaire Privee caters to ultra-high-net-worth individuals, family offices and institutional clients. As of December 31, the bank had 140.3 billion Swiss francs (US$142.9 billion) in assets under management, a 10.6 per cent increase from the end of 2018.

The family-owned Swiss private bank reported net income of 187.8 million Swiss francs, a 7.2 per cent decline from the prior year. The 2019 results included a US$14 million payment to the US Department of Justice under a non-prosecution agreement to disclose US-related accounts to authorities.

Union Bancaire Privee does not break out its results by region, but said its Asian business "contributed strongly" to the bank's organic growth last year.

Blake, the Asia CEO, said its wealth management and asset management businesses have about 27 billion Swiss francs in assets under management. Revenue in the wealth management business increased by 18 per cent last year and investment mandates rose 30 per cent, he said.

Family offices are gaining ground in Asia, but remain nascent in parts of the region, particularly in China, according to a study on families offices by UBS and AVIC Trust last month.

Wealthy families in Asia-Pacific had about 66 per cent of their wealth, or about US$600 million, managed, but lagged the global average of 76 per cent, according to the report.

China's wealthy also lagged the global average, with about 65 per cent of their wealth managed. However, one-third of wealthy Chinese families surveyed in the study had begun using family offices in the past two years, according to the report.

Union Bancaire Privee gained a major foothold in Asia with the acquisition of Coutts International's operations in Singapore and in Hong Kong from Royal Bank of Scotland in 2016.

Story continues