Taipei, Jan. 20 (CNA) Four of Taiwan's offshore island airports are to be redesigned by Japanese architect Norihiko Dan, Lin Kuo-shian (林國顯), director-general of the Civil Aeronautics Administration (CAA), said Monday.

Dan will start planning and design work for Chimei Airport and Wanan Airport on Penghu, Green Island Airport and Orchid Island (Lanyu) Airport later this year, by incorporating the Ministry of Transportation and Communications' idea of "injecting design aesthetics into public infrastructure," Lin said.

The Japanese architect, who was responsible for renovating Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport Terminal 1, will incorporate local characteristics into work on the four offshore island airports to make them into local tourist gateways, according to Lin.

If all goes well, work will start next year, he said.

Lin revealed the plan at a celebration to mark the 73rd anniversary of the CAA's establishment in 1947 in Nanjing, China.

He further said that last year CAA renovated Taichung International Airport's overnight aprons and Kaohsiung International Airport's runway as well as building a new control tower at Taoyuan airport.

Construction on a new terminal at Taichung airport started last year, Lin added, noting that service quality as well as flight safety and aviation security at various airports have also improved.

Lin said that up to 72 million passengers passed through Taiwan's 16 airports last year. Meanwhile, as of the end of 2019, Taiwan has signed air services agreements with 57 countries or territories, while 96 airlines operate in Taiwan, with flights to 150 cities around the world.

The International Aviation Safety Summit was held in Taipei for the first time last year, Lin said, adding that as one of the 300-plus flight information regions around the world, the Taipei Flight Information Region has been a part of the global aviation community.

As such, the nation's recent exclusion from the International Civil Aviation Organization, as a result of Chinese pressure, is contrary to the United Nations-affiliated body's own objective of a "seamless sky," he said.