Source: Xinhua| 2020-02-04 21:37:46|Editor: huaxia

Video Player Close

SEOUL, Feb. 4 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Ambassador to South Korea Xing Haiming on Tuesday appealed to foreign countries to take a scientific approach to combat the novel coronavirus and follow recommendations by the World Health Organization (WHO).

At a press conference held in Seoul, Xing called on relevant countries to make decisions based on science and follow WHO suggestions given its status as the largest global authority on health issues.

Xing said the Chinese government has taken the most comprehensive and strictest measures to prevent the spread of the virus in cooperation with the international community, which considerably slowed down its spread to other countries.

He stressed that China has the capability and resolve to win the fight against the new strain of coronavirus.

WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told the WHO Executive Board meeting on Monday that China has taken "serious measures at the epicenter, at the source," which not only protected Chinese people, but also prevented the spread of the virus to other countries.

"Because of this strategy, if it weren't for China's efforts, the number of cases outside China would have been very much higher," Tedros said.

WHO has said there is no reason for measures that unnecessarily interfere with international travel and trade, and all countries must support those with weaker health systems, as well as accelerate the development of vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics.

Xing said China and South Korea are closely-linked, friendly neighbors, emphasizing the importance for close cooperation between the two countries.

The Chinese ambassador expressed his gratitude to the South Korean government and people in various circles for their support for China in fighting the virus, saying that the Chinese people would not forget it.

"We should join forces and overcome the ongoing emergency situation and should not spare any support and cooperation that we can offer as a neighboring country," South Korean President Moon Jae-in told his senior secretaries at a meeting on Monday.