Several events were held Monday to honor the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., including a parade in Canton. Marching bands, Greek organizations and others took part in the parade."Martin Luther King was a part of our fraternity, and he did a lot of hard work in the community, as well as in the schools and civil rights movement," said paradegoer Markus Brooks. "The fact that Martin Luther King sacrificed his life, he died for us and the only thing he wanted was peace and freedom, so we out here are trying to represent," said paradegoer Ashley Williamson.Also Monday, officials from the Junior League of Jackson served the community by holding several service projects. Joining them in the service projects were organizations including Jackson Public Schools' Partners in Education, We Will Go Ministries and Stewpot Community Services. Among the projects was the collection of school supplies to help teachers restock their classrooms, restoring a playground and painting inspirational murals. The Alpha Jackson and the Poor People's Campaign of Mississippi held a service to honor King at Mt. Helm Baptist Church on Church Street in Jackson. People across the country were encouraged to use MLK Day as a day of service to honor King's memory.King is known as an advocate for nonviolent protest during the civil rights movement.

Several events were held Monday to honor the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., including a parade in Canton.

Advertisement

Marching bands, Greek organizations and others took part in the parade.

"Martin Luther King was a part of our fraternity, and he did a lot of hard work in the community, as well as in the schools and civil rights movement," said paradegoer Markus Brooks.

"The fact that Martin Luther King sacrificed his life, he died for us and the only thing he wanted was peace and freedom, so we out here are trying to represent," said paradegoer Ashley Williamson.

Also Monday, officials from the Junior League of Jackson served the community by holding several service projects. Joining them in the service projects were organizations including Jackson Public Schools' Partners in Education, We Will Go Ministries and Stewpot Community Services. Among the projects was the collection of school supplies to help teachers restock their classrooms, restoring a playground and painting inspirational murals.

The Alpha Jackson and the Poor People's Campaign of Mississippi held a service to honor King at Mt. Helm Baptist Church on Church Street in Jackson.

People across the country were encouraged to use MLK Day as a day of service to honor King's memory.

King is known as an advocate for nonviolent protest during the civil rights movement.