In the first week of November, after Chile cancelled the Apec summit and before the BRICS summit took place in Brasilia, there were intense discussions between China and the United States about a potential face-to-face meeting between their two respective leaders.

The hope was that after plans of a meeting in Chile's capital of Santiago were wrecked by violent street protests, Chinese President Xi Jinping and his US counterpart Donald Trump might find a location to finalise a phase one trade deal, according to two separate sources briefed on the matter.

Trump's desire for an eye-catching photo opportunity with Xi has always been clear, with the US president looking for a "win" in the trade war to help boost his re-election campaign.

For Xi, however, the timing was off. The text of the agreement had not been finalised and the broader US-China bilateral relationship was clouded by protests in Hong Kong and Xinjiang.

Xi had been willing to meet Trump in Chile, in similar fashion to their meeting at the G20 in Osaka, where they talked broadly about bilateral issues " including trade. But it was not certain that the deal would be signed in Chile.

Before leaving for a state visit to Greece and an annual meeting with the leaders of Brazil, Russia, India and South Africa " the BRICS " Xi turned down proposals of a bilateral summit on his way to or from Brazil, according to one of the sources, who wished not to be identified.

The state-owned Xinhua news agency later reported that on his way back to Beijing from Brazil on November 14, Xi made a "technical" stopover in Tenerife, one of Spain's Canary Islands, off the coast of West Africa. This term generally denotes aircraft maintenance and refuelling, without any official activities.

This is just one of the many twists between a preliminary agreement reached mid-October and Beijing's confirmation on Thursday that Vice-Premier Liu He will lead a delegation to sign the deal in Washington next week.

Minor as some of the details may be, they reflect subtle but important discrepancies between Beijing and Washington's differing perceptions of the deal, which could herald years of disputes down the road. Even after the phase one deal is signed, few expect the US-China relationship to significantly improve.

Before the cancellation of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (Apec) summit, however, things were looking slightly rosier. In fact, the second half of October offered a rare sense of stability and predictability in the dynamic.

After a negotiating round in Washington on October 10 and 11, Liu, who has led the negotiations, said that there was a foundation to sign a "phased" deal. Negotiators maintained "close communication" and made "smooth progress" in the following days, China's Ministry of Commerce said.

A trade deal was within reach after the sides agreed to take the difficult parts out. Xi agreed to meet with Trump on the sidelines of the Apec summit in Santiago, scheduled for November 17, the Post reported at the time.

A phone call between Liu and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on October 25 confirmed "the basic completion of technical negotiations over parts of the text". Trump, meanwhile, told reporters on October 28 that he would sign a phase one deal "ahead of schedule".

Two days later, however, things started to go wrong.

Increasingly violent protests in the capital city forced Chile, to cancel the summit, undoing preliminary preparations by Beijing and Washington for a Trump-Xi summit, and throwing everything up in the air.

On November 1, Liu, Lighthizer and Mnuchin, had a call to discuss "future negotiation arrangements", but "there was really no Plan B", said a source on the cancellation of the meeting in Chile, adding that an immediate option was to try finding a stopover on Xi's Brazil trip.

"I heard Chinese officials were gazing at a world map for hours, trying to locate an ideal stopover point," the source said, adding that Xi's scheduled trip to Greece on the way to Brazil meant planners were looking for a potential meeting on his way back to China.

Speculation was rife as to where the two could meet. Alaska, Hawaii and Macau were mentioned, but Trump's reluctance to commit to rolling back existing tariffs made the deal "unbalanced" for Beijing, making it hard for Xi to sign, the Post quoted a source saying at the time.