People wearing masks walk on a Hong Kong street amid coronavirus outbreak. (File photo: AFP)

NEW DELHI: India may lose business worth millions of dollars due to the Chinese coronavirus epidemic. The scare around the virus — as cases spread — as well as precautions threaten to disrupt supply of components and availability and launch of mobiles phones, televisions and other electronics products.The parts pipeline of top brands such as Xiaomi, Vivo, Oppo, OnePlus , TCL, Lenovo, Apple and RealMe is likely to get impacted. It’s also worrying for large contract manufacturers such as Foxconn and Skyworth — who make TVs in India largely with Chinese components — as limited inventory levels in India (despite buffer stocks accumulated due to Chinese new year holidays) and uncertainty over new supplies may hit production in the coming weeks.The auto industry, while being self-reliant, is also worried as China has now started playing a significant role in the Indian market, especially as electric mobility starts picking up (largely in twowheelers). With Chinese companies like SAIC, BYD, Great wall and FAW occupying a significant portion in the upcoming auto expo that will be held at Greater Noida from February 5 to 12, there is a fear that entry of expats from the neighbouring country may cause concern among other participants — or public at large — and may even lead to the spread of the virus.Siam, which is one of the organisers of the mega event along with CII and ACMA, is keeping a close watch on the situation. “As Siam, we have gone through the advisories issued by the ministry of health and are taking adequate precautions at the venue of auto expo,” Rajan Wadhera, president of the auto body, said.MG Motors (a subsidiary of SAIC), which is enjoying a good run in India with vehicles such as Hector SUV and newly-launched ZS electric, fears the company may not have enough cars to dispatch to showrooms as supplies from China come under a squeeze. “It’s already a hand-to-mouth situation for us. If things don’t improve over the next six to seven days, we will be severely affected,” MG India MD Rajeev Chaba told TOI.Phone and electronics makers are also facing an alarming situation. Future component supplies to Chinese brands such as Xiaomi, Vivo and Oppo look under pressure. While Apple now sources iPhone XR and 7 from India, their components come mainly from China. Also, all other products of the company have a connection to China.A top executive at a leading Chinese phone maker said, “We are very, very concerned. There are travel advisories for our staff (regarding travel to or from China), and even the incoming cargo is now being hit. While buffer stock is being used now, there is no clarity on how we will tackle a longish disruption in supplies.”Companies such as Xiaomi, Vivo and Oppo have carried out an assessment of their existing stocks and supply chain, and are worried about arrival of the next batch of supplies. “It is a fluid situation, but all indications suggest that things may become difficult in the weeks to come when it comes to production at factories.”Another executive said while core of the epidemic is currently confined to the Wuhan area in China and not to other large manufacturing hubs of the country, problems may only rise. “Most of the country is currently shut due to the Chinese new year. However, this finishes by end of this week. We don’t expect factories in Shenzhen to immediately resume peak production as there are travel advisories and fear of the virus spreading with movement of people. China may also not encourage an immediate opening of factories as it would mean opening of dormitories for workers, which would lead to accumulation of people in small areas. The virus may spread fast in such situations.”