Global stock selloff due to an overnight rout in the energy complex sends all grain prices falling this morning

Corn down 5-6 cents

Soybeans down 15-18 cents, soyoil down $1.13, soybean meal down $3.1

Wheat down 8-10 cents

*Prices as of 6:45am CST.

What you need to know about this morning’s selloff: Rising tensions between Saudi Arabia and Russia sent oil futures tumbling as much as 25% after OPEC and Russia could not agree on production cuts on Friday to support prices amidst the economic fallout due to the coronavirus outbreak.

The Saudi state-backed oil magnate Aramco announced price cuts on Saturday evening in an effort to draw market share away from Russia. Saudi Arabia could reach output levels of 12 million barrels a day merely a week after assuring markets they could slash exports by 500,000 barrels a day due to reduced Chinese demand thanks to the coronavirus. Meanwhile, increased Russian output threatens to pile on top of a global oil supply glut, sending prices tumbling.

As of this morning, the benchmark Brent crude contract for March was $9.87 lower to $35.40/barrel. April light crude prices were $9.48 lower to $31.80/barrel and April ultra-low sulfur diesel prices had lost 15.50% to $1.1705/gallon. It may not be a bad day to book fuel sales as energy prices continue lower.

Corn: The bleeding energy complex and continued coronavirus fears led May corn futures $0.05 lower to $3.71 overnight. July futures were down $0.0525 to $3.74 this morning.

The weekly Commitment of Traders report, issued Friday by the CFTC, found speculators trimming their short position on corn by 12,793 contracts for the week ending March 3. Despite ending the week less bearish after a trading period which featured a $0.1325 rise in May futures, money managers remained net sellers of corn by 84,939 positions.

After see-sawing on its decision to abolish biofuel waiver exemptions for small oil refineries (SREs) last week, the Trump administration requested two more weeks to determine if they would appeal a federal court decision that cast doubt on the increased amount of SREs issued during President Trump’s presidency. President Trump appears to be torn between the big oil and agriculture industries, two of his key groups of supporters.

The White House initially favored scaling back SREs following the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals’ decision in January, but efforts by oil industry led by Texas Senator Ted Cruz last week led the President to change his stance. The president’s most recent change in perspective came after a Friday meeting with Iowa Senator Joni Ernst. Should the administration direct the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to appeal the ruling, the case will be sent to the U.S. Supreme Court.

South Korea issued an international tender for 5.2 million bushels of corn. The tender, which is expected to be sourced from optional origins, was divided into two consignments of 2.6 million bushels, with the first being priced at $5.22/bushel and the second coming in at $5.29/bushel. The first consignment opened sourcing opportunities to the U.S. Pacific Northwest though the second sale was expected to be exclusively sourced by South America and/or South Africa.

Soybeans: Soybeans prices endured the most bleeding of the grain complex this morning, as the May contract lost $0.1625 to $8.75. March soybean oil futures were $1.13 lower to $27.62/lb and May soybean meal prices tumbled $3.1 to $302/ton.

Friday’s Commitment of Traders report found speculators slashing 38,611 short positions on soybeans to retain a net selling position by 35,768 contracts. Similar to corn, the less bearish sentiments followed a week of rising May futures prices as global markets sought to recover following the fallout of the coronavirus outbreak. Hedge fund managers mirrored their intentions to the soybean meal complex, trimming short positions by 51,464 contracts on renewed hopes of international demand. Speculative traders remain net sellers of soybean meal as well though their net position tightened to 18,324 positions in last Friday’s report.

Bullish prospects on soybean oil eased as reduced Chinese demand and geopolitical turmoil between Malaysia and India weighed on the vegetable oil complex all week. The Commitment of Traders report for the week ending March 3 found speculators trimming long positions by 8,303 contracts. Money managers continued to be bullish on soybean oil, ending the week as net buyers of the vegetable oil by 14,990 positions.

Chinese import data released Saturday shows a 14.2% increase in U.S. soybean imports following the Phase 1 trade deal. China’s General Administration of Customs reported 496.4 million bushels of soybeans imported in January and February, a 61.7 million bushel increase from the same period a year ago. The first of the cargoes shipped following the trade deal have recently arrived in China as crushing rates are expected to tick upwards following an expected decline in new occurrences of coronavirus.

Wheat:

The wheat complex followed global stocks lower this morning as losses in the energy complex ate into commodity gains. The ICE Dollar Index somewhat offered a cap on losses as it dropped 0.83% in weekend trading.

Spot basis bids on hard red winter wheat prices were unchanged on Friday as farmer sales continued to be relatively non-existent on lower futures prices.

Protein premiums on hard red winter cash wheat delivered to or through Kansas City by rail were unchanged, as shown below:

Speculators became very bullish on Chicago soft red winter wheat in last week’s Commitment of Traders report, slashing 34,515 long positions for the week ending March 3. They remained net buyers of soft wheat, but their net position tightened to 15,404 contracts. Kansas City wheat fared similarly with speculators as they added 9,011 short positions. Money managers became net sellers of hard red winter wheat last week by 1,951 positions.

The Chinese wheat crop may be at risk for locust damage as the African locust outbreak continued to move through Pakistan and India. The Chinese government will set up 29 monitoring sites for the pests along the Indian, Pakistani, and Myanmar borders to prevent their spread. While the risk for swarms is low, the Chinese government is committed to taking proactive measures against the invasive insects in an effort to protect their food supply after it has already suffered fallout due to African swine fever, a trade war, and coronavirus.

Algeria issued a 1.8 million-bushel tender to purchase soft milling wheat, with a strong possibility of purchasing a higher volume when the tender deadline of Wednesday rolls around. The sale to the North African country is expected to be sourced by optional origins.

Weather: After a clear weekend, two rain systems will move through the Midwest by Wednesday. Rainfall through the Central Plains and Central Mississippi River Valley could accumulate to over an inch today according to NOAA's 24-hour precipitation forecast. A chance of severe thunderstorms is possible in areas of the Southern Corn Belt through the night. As the first system moves out of the Midwest on Tuesday, a new rain system will move into the Upper Mississippi Valley early on Wednesday.

Financials: Confirmed international coronavirus cases soared past 105,000 last night. Connecticut, Missouri, Washington, D.C., and Vermont reported their first cases over the weekend as the virus has now spread to half of the states in the continental U.S.

The Dow was down 1,255 points or 4.87% to 24,534 points in premarket trading on the global energy complex rout. Yields on the 10-year Treasury note tumbled to yet another new record low of 0.403% as bond demand surged on the energy price news.

USDA’s planting intentions report is released March 31. Farm Futures is conducting a survey on acreage intentions to provide you with information to adjust your marketing plans before the report. To participate in the survey, please click on this link. Thank you for your help!