Vietnamese Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Pham Binh Minh meets Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi

The meetings transpired on the sidelines of Deputy PM and FM Minh’s participation in the fifth Mekong-Lancang Cooperation Foreign Ministers' Meeting and Special ASEAN-China Foreign Ministers’ Meeting on Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) in Laos.Meeting with Wang Yi, Minh expressed his sympathies to China over the losses caused by COVID-19 and hoped China will overcome this difficult time soon.

Concerning Vietnam-China ties, Minh proposed both sides consolidate political trust via high-level delegation exchanges, and hold activities marking the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations.

The official suggested improving the efficiency of cooperation across all arenas, coordinating to effectively deal with border and territory issues, and stepping locality-to-locality cooperation and people-to-people exchanges.



He asked China to continue applying measures to narrow Vietnam’s trade deficit, and facilitate the export of Vietnamese goods to the market, especially farm produce.



Greater attention should be given to handling problems in a number of cooperation projects, particularly the Cat Linh-Ha Dong urban railway, he noted.

Regarding the sea-related issues, Deputy PM Minh underscored Vietnam’s stance of continuing to work with China and other countries in search of measures to maintain peace, security and stability in the East Sea, while facilitating the negotiations on a Code of Conduct in the East Sea (COC).

For his part, Wang Yi thanked Vietnam for supporting China in the fight against COVID-19.



He affirmed his nation’s willingness to increase the import of Vietnamese products and will actively coordinate with Vietnam to settle existing problems relating to the bilateral cooperation projects.

He assured China’s support for Vietnam in undertaking the role of the ASEAN Chair 2020 and a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for 2020-2021.

Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Pham Binh Minh (L) and Lao Minister of Foreign Affairs Saleumxay Kommasithand

At the meeting with the Lao foreign minister, the two FMs consented to bolster cooperation in realizing agreements reached by the two countries’ leaders and at the 42nd session of the Vietnam-Laos intergovernmental meeting in January.

They concurred to accelerate the implementation of the foreign ministries’ cooperation agreement for 2014-2020 and review the piloting of the one-stop-shop mechanism at the Lao Bao-Densavan border gate.



Both countries pledged to boost coordination at regional and international forums.



Sharing their common concerns over the complicated development of COVID-19, they agreed that ASEAN member states should increase coordination and take prompt actions to respond to the epidemic.