CLOSE

James Pinto, 17, of Simi Valley, has been fascinated with dinosaurs since he was a child.

"To me, the idea that there were creatures like that which were that huge and were just so endlessly bizarre is really compelling," he said. "Like they don't fit most of the conventions that we think of when we think of an animal.

"Yet they were real. But they feel like something that came out of some guy's concept art portfolio," said the home-schooled high school senior.

Pinto's infatuation with dinosaurs has led to him and his father, Tony Pinto, 44, who owns a video production company, to make a feature-length documentary about the giant, now-extinct reptiles who roamed the earth millions of years ago. The Pintos have been working on the project for about 2 ½ years.

Titled "Why Dinosaurs?" "this fossil-loving film celebrates dinosaurs and the people who love them," the movie's website, whydinosaurs.com, says.

About 25 people around the country have thus been interviewed on camera for the documentary, which is expected to be completed later this year. They include paleontologists, fossil hunters, fans of the "Jurassic Park" and "Jurassic World" movies, and Arizona State Sen. Kate Brophy McGee, who was instrumental in the Sonorasaurus being named that state's official dinosaur in 2018.

"Through our travels, we seek to answer the question, 'Why Dinosaurs?'" the project's website says.

Related news:

Dinosaurs in pop culture

James said the project grew out him and his father "trying to figure out something to do together, with him focusing on film as a career and me having liked dinosaurs since I was like 6.

"I had thought, 'Well, wouldn't it be interesting to make a short or something about the history of how dinosaurs have been depicted in pop culture,'" said James, who does volunteer fossil preparation work every Friday at the La Brea Tar Pits in Los Angeles and who won first place in the 2016 California State Science Fair for a geological experiment on Spinosaurus teeth.

Thus, they began interviewing subjects with James asking the questions and Tony handling the camera work.

Some of the early feedback from a trailer posted on Instagram, the documentary's website and the crowdfunding site www.indiegogo was that people wanted to see more of James in the movie.

"People on social media were saying, 'We like James' story. We want more of him,'" Tony said.

And more of James they will see, walking around museums with paleontologists, digging at fossil excavations and other related activities.

The Pintos plan to do more interviews when they go to England in April. And they may travel to China and Australia sometime after that where they would conduct even more interviews.

The short video project first envisioned has now grown to a full-length feature expected to run about 90 minutes when completed, they said.

"It's surprising that we've gained this much momentum," James said.

Film's completion in sight

He and his father laugh when asked when they're going to finish the project.

"Well, the plan is late this year," James said. "We're just now starting to get into post-production phases."

Beside the fact that the movie keeps growing in scope, Tony said it's taking so long to complete because he and James can only work on it in their spare time. Tony notes he runs his video production company, Pinto Productions, full-time, while James is a full-time student.

"We're squeezing it in when we can," Tony said.

The project is being funded both out of pocket by Tony – who has invested about $10,000 so far – and by donations through www.indiegogo, which to date has raised $20,499 from 107 backers.

By the time the documentary is completed, the total cost will likely be $40,000-$50,000, Tony said.

So more donations are being requested, James said.

The Pintos hope to screen the finished movie at a minimum at one film festival.

"To be able to sit in a crowd of people and to look and watch this thing," Tony said.

They would also like to have a local premiere at perhaps the Studio Movie Grill in Simi Valley.

"And if it has legs and wants to go up to Netflix or Amazon or something like that, then we're all for it," Tony said. "At a minimum, we'd probably self-publish it somewhere where people can watch it."

The Pintos are hoping media coverage about the documentary may attract the attention of those involved in the "Jurassic Park" and "Jurassic World" franchises, including director Steven Spielberg, leading them to be interviewed for the movie.

James said the first "Jurassic Park" film, released in 1993, was one of the first things that got him interested in dinosaurs, "even though it doesn't have very real depictions of dinosaurs in it."

A bigger influence was the subsequent BBC television miniseries "Walking with Dinosaurs," he said.

Tony said making the documentary "has been the ultimate father-son project."

With James planning on starting college in the fall to study paleontology – he's not sure where yet – "he's going to be so busy and less interested in working on it," Tony said.

"And so this father-son project has been kind of the last hurrah," he said

To donate to the "Why Dinosaurs?" documentary project, go to indiegogo.com.

Mike Harris covers the East County cities of Simi Valley and Thousand Oaks, as well as transportation countywide. You can contact him at mike.harris@vcstar.com or 805-437-0323.

SUPPORT LOCAL JOURNALISM and get all the latest Simi Valley news from Star reporter Mike Harris. Get a digital subscription.

Read or Share this story: https://www.vcstar.com/story/news/local/communities/simi-valley/2020/01/26/simi-valley-father-and-son-making-dinosaur-documentary/2787704001/