On the second of his 14 days in quarantine, Kai Huang of Ottawa was feeling healthy and better rested after the long flight from China — and was actually grateful that he is going through this process.

“It is much better than (Friday). We felt very exhausted and very tense” after being flown home, Huang said Saturday. “It’s almost like an escape to here.”

Kai Huang and his mother, Yi Huang, were among 176 Canadians who were flown back from China and housed at Yukon Lodge, a motel on the grounds of CFB Trenton.

Kai Huang is a software developer with the RCMP in Ottawa, and lives in the Stonebridge neighbourhood of Barrhaven. He had been in China to help his mother sell her home in preparation for the move to Canada.

He and his mother were on an American flight first — 12 hours from Wuhan to Vancouver — and then another five-and-a-half hours in the air to Trenton, all on top of time waiting in airports.

On Friday, the World Health Organization said there had been 34,886 infections from novel coronavirus globally, most in China. There had been 723 deaths, all but one in China.

Canadians flown back in the evacuation are being held either singly or in family groups at Trenton. The Huangs are sharing a room because Yi Huang speaks no English.

The room has beds, an attached bathroom, furniture, cabinets, TV and a microwave, and a fridge with some food.

“We can talk with other people, but not face-to-face,” he said. “It’s by phone or we use WeChat a lot.” The app allows video calls like Skype or FaceTime.

“We can go outside for fresh air,” though the travellers are advised not to gather in groups or approach each other. There is a fence around the grounds and they have to stay inside that fence, but he said he has been enjoying the sunny weather and the chance for fresh air.

Mostly the people in quarantine have positive feelings about it, he said.

“Most of the people feel it is very necessary. My opinion is the same thing. It is necessary for 14 days. Some people feel, ‘I don’t have the symptoms so I should go home,’ but this, I feel, is very necessary. It protects ourselves and also protects the rest of Canadians.”

He has been answering questions from the wider Chinese community as well. “They have a lot of questions.”

“The food is typical western food, like a sub sandwich, fruits, juice,” along with “main foods like chicken, beef, carrots and also some beans.”

We asked how he likes it. There was a pause.

“For several meals, it’s fine, but for 14 days that’s too long,” he said, laughing. But he doesn’t want to bother the staff by asking for Chinese food.

“So we understand. This is a very nice place and the people try their best.”

The staff are partly Red Cross people and there are also staff from the Public Health Agency of Canada who monitor everyone’s health.

“My health is good,” he said. He is confident he does not have the coronavirus.

Huang said his wife, Bingli Lin, “is very happy to hear that we safely came here and we have a comfortable room, and eventually, only waiting 13 days, we can get together.”

The couple has a daughter, a year and eight months, who cries when she goes to daycare. They are looking forward to the time when Yi can help care for the child at home.

For now, they continue to call the Yukon Lodge home. The whole thing is a totally strange way to live.

“It’s a once-in-a-lifetime experience,” Kai said. “I never heard of it from outside China or inside China.”

Huang insisted on repeating his thanks to this country.

“We really appreciate Canada’s government taking care of us. Even in this critical situation in China, Canada never forgot us,” he said. “We also appreciate Ottawa people supporting us.”

He said the Canadian government has been attentive in helping them handle “even the smallest things” such as how to plan their eventual trip home to Ottawa when the time comes.

“This, I think, is very good.”

tspears@postmedia.com

twitter.com/TomSpears1

ALSO IN THE NEWS

Ex-RCMP boss billed $116K for sleuthing as integrity commish looks into Rick Chiarelli allegations

New evidence in Peshdary terror trial ‘potentially puts in doubt’ earlier court rulings

Alumni game: Sens, NHL relive glory days on Rink of Dreams