The photo shows the night view of the Pudong New District in Shanghai. Korea's budget carrier Eastar Jet will open a new regular Jeju-Shanghai route on Jan. 17. / Korea Times file



By Jun Ji-hye



Air carriers here have been rushing to launch new routes in their diversification strategy aimed at expanding global networks and improving operating profits amid lower travel demand to Japan and a worsening industry environment, company officials said Thursday.



Budget carrier Eastar Jet will open a new regular Jeju-Shanghai route on Jan. 17 that will operate four days a week.



The new flights will depart from Jeju International Airport at 22:30 and arrive at Shanghai Pudong International Airport at 23:20 local time. The return flights depart from Shanghai at 6:10 local time.



Eastar Jet began sales of tickets for the Jeju-Shanghai route, Jan. 6.



The company said 70 percent of those who have purchased the tickets were Chinese, raising expectations that the new service will attract more Chinese travelers to Jeju Island.



"Jeju has implemented a visa-free policy for Chinese tourists, thus the resort island is in a favorable position to attract Chinese visitors," an Eastar Jet official said. "We will continue to secure additional slots for the Jeju-Shanghai route to enhance competitiveness."



Air Seoul, a budget carrier unit of Asiana Airlines, opened a new route to Nha Trang and Hanoi in Vietnam in December.



Before this, the company launched the new route from Incheon to Zhangjiajie of China in October, hoping to achieve more than 14 billion won ($12 million) in annual sales from the route.



This year, the carrier plans to launch new services to Taiwan, China's Shandong Peninsula, Vietnam's Qui Nhon and Russia's Vladivostok.



Asiana Airlines, the nation's second-largest air carrier, has also consistently launched new routes to diversify sources of revenue.



In December, the carrier launched a new service to Nha Trang, with its inaugural flight to the Vietnamese city departing from Incheon, Dec. 16.



The company has also launched irregular operations to Lisbon at the end of October, Melbourne and Cairo in December.



"We are considering converting irregular operations into regular routes in accordance with demand," an Asiana Airlines official said.



Among foreign carriers, Taiwan's budget carrier Tigerair Taiwan launched a new Incheon- Taipei route, Jan. 3, in a bid to enhance its presence.



The flights depart from Incheon three days a week, with the company planning to operate the service everyday beginning March 29.



Vietnam's budget carrier VietJet Air will launch a new Incheon-Can Tho route, Jan. 17.



Can Tho, located in southern Vietnam's Mekong Delta region, has recently become a popular travel destination, with the number of travelers visiting the city reaching 8.8 million last year.

