Singapore is better prepared this time to deal with the Wuhan coronavirus after its experience with SARS in 2003, said Deputy Prime Minister Heng Swee Keat on Monday, Jan. 27.

Advertisement

Singapore is prepared to handle the cases

Speaking at the Spring Reception 2020 held at the Singapore Chinese Cultural Centre, Heng said healthcare institutions in Singapore are also “geared up to handle the cases”.

However, Singapore will need to “remain alert to the situation and adapt our responses accordingly”, he added.

He said the government will “spare no effort to keep Singaporeans safe”.

“Rings of defence” built to protect Singaporeans

To oversee their responses to the virus, the government has set up a Ministerial Task Force on Jan. 22, which was co-led by Health Minister Gan Kim Yong and Minister for National Development Lawrence Wong.

Heng said the government has “built multiple rings of defence to protect Singaporeans”, adding that they have stepped up their safeguards as the situation developed.

Three new measures

For instance, the task force announced on Monday morning, Jan. 27, three additional measures, which are as follows:

Expanding Singapore’s travel advisory to defer all non-essential travel to the rest of China. Enhancing screening efforts at our air checkpoints, as well as deploying thermal scanners to cover all incoming flights, with extra attention given to flights from China. Advise precautionary measures for those returning from China, and take more stringent measures for those with close contact and sustained interactions with vulnerable groups, such as children and the elderly.

Heng said while the additional measures might lead to “some inconvenience”, he hopes to get support from Singaporeans to keep everyone safe.

Advertisement

Singapore working with all to mitigate spread of virus

Heng also said Singapore is working closely with the World Health Organisation (WHO), China, and all countries to mitigate the effects and global spread of the virus.

Nevertheless, the situation should not be a downer on the festivities.

Heng said Singaporeans should continue to enjoy the festivities of the Lunar New Year, “meet up with family and friends”, and continue going about their daily lives when the work week resumes.

But he cautioned everyone to “stay vigilant” by adopting good personal hygiene and being socially responsible.

This includes going to the doctor should one feel unwell, and avoiding crowded places until the person feels better.

In addition, he urged everyone to stay informed and up to date on the latest development from the news, the Ministry of Health’s website, and by subscribing to the GOV.SG WhatsApp channel for updates.

However, Heng cautioned against the spread of fake news, and urged Singaporeans to check the information they receive and not simply buy into it.

Crucial for Singaporeans to harness diversity as strength

With the launch of the Singapore Together movement by Heng last year, he shared his hope for Singaporeans to contribute and work together as well.

He said as a “multi-racial, multi-cultural, and multi-religious society”, Singapore must “harness our diversity as our strength to build our shared future together”, rather than let our differences divide us.

Heng added that the government will work to create new opportunities in the economy, and equip Singaporeans with appropriate skills to take on new roles in future.

Confident Singapore can overcome the virus

Heng concluded his speech by saying he is confident Singapore can overcome the Wuhan coronavirus as well as other challenges ahead by “working together as one people, by harnessing our diversity as strength, and by working with all countries”.

He said: “Together, we can build a brighter and better future for all of us!”

Related articles:

Advertisement

Top image by Julia Yeo