Ivanka Trump arrived for the signing of phase one of the US and China trade agreement between Donald Trump and Chinese Vice Premier, Liu He. She arrived in her role of senior political advisor with National Security Advisor, Robert O’Brien and her husband, Jared Kushner, 39. She wore a £2,800 two-piece checked outfit she has worn out twice before.

READ MORE Ivanka Trump: What has Jared Kushner said about their marriage? Ivanka watched the signing that took place in the East Room of the Whilte House in Washington. Sharing pictures of the event on Instagram, Ivanka wrote: “Meanwhile in Washington… “The President just signed a landmark Phase One Trade Agreement with China — making good on his promise to fix the failed policies of the past by fighting for American workers and American industries!” The former model showed off her stunning figure in a fitted ensemble by designer Oscar De La Renta. READ MORE: Ivanka Trump's husband Jared Kushner shares rare details about Donald’s daughter

Ivanka Trump: She opted for a navy and white check outfit

Ivanka Trump: She was joined by her husband, Jared Kushner

The skirt cut off at the knees and she chose to brave the cold and leave her legs bare. The thrifty mother-of-three was first spotted out in the ensemble as she attended the G20 summit in November 2018. Ivanka was spotted in the outfit again in October 2019 as she went to work. The President’s daughter paired the look with a navy wool coat that she carried over her arm.

Ivanka Trump: She recycled an Oscar De La Renta outfit

Ivanka Trump: She first wore the two piece set at the G20 Summit in November 2018

READ MORE Ivanka Trump opts for pink Alexander McQueen blazer on trip to Qatar Adding more luxury to the designer ensemble, Ivanka carried a black leather Chanel bag. She completed the look with a pair of closed toe navy high heel shoes. Ivanka wore her hair down and styled her long blonde bob into a middle parting and straightened it. The former model kept her make-up simple with a coat of mascara and brown lip gloss.

Trending

Ivanka Trump: She wore the fitted ensemble which cost £2,800

Ivanka Trump: She is the daughter of the US President, Donald Trump