The new Vantas brand created by HAAH Automotive Holdings has announced preliminary specifications of two Chery-sourced SUVs it plans to sell in the United States from late 2021-early 2022.



Called Vantas TXL and Vantas VX, these are actually rebadged versions of the Chery Exeed TXL and Chery Exeed VX from the Chinese market.

Both Vantas models have been on display at the National Automobile Dealer Association (NADA) 2020 Show (February 15-17). The first to arrive Stateside in late 2021 will be the midsize TXL, which is currently on sale in China.

Read Also: Former Mazda Design Chief Kevin Rice Moves To Chery

The Vantas TXL is 188-in (4,775-mm) long and has a 110.2-in (2,799-mm) wheelbase, offering five seats. While the Chinese-spec model is powered by a 1.6-liter turbocharged four-cylinder engine, the U.S. version will pack a 2.0-liter turbo-four with a proposed output of more than 240 horsepower.

The gasoline direct-injected engine will be mated to a seven-speed automatic transmission. Front-wheel-drive and all-wheel-drive variants will be available. Some European countries will get it as the Chery Exeed TX.

The second Vantas model to go on sale in the U.S., likely in early 2022, will be the full-size VX. Unveiled by Chery at the 2019 Guangzhou Auto Show in concept form, the VX will soon go on sale in China, providing the basis of the U.S.-spec model.

The Vantas VX will be 195.7-in (4,970-mm) long, with a wheelbase of 114.1 inches (2,898 mm) enabling a standard seven-seat layout. As with the TXL, the VX will pack a 2.0-liter turbocharged four-cylinder gasoline engine mated to a seven speed automatic transmission. Customers will be able to choose between front- and all-wheel drive variants.

Vantas says the specifications may undergo changes until the models will go on sale as homologation work for the U.S. market has not yet been completed. HAAH Automotive Holdings and Chery have begun a search for potential sites for the production of Vantas vehicles in the United States.

That’s essential for the launch of the TXL and VX SUVs, as both will be assembled in the U.S. The company said it is only considering existing facilities for vehicle production in order to meet its aggressive on sale goal. According to Auto News, 80 dealers have already signed up to sell Vantas vehicles in the United States.