Sindh Chief Minister Syed Murad Ali has said that MQM- Pakistan does not talk about division of Sindh whenever it join coalition with PPP.

“This is why we have invited them to quit PTI government in the Center and join Sindh government as a coalition partner.”

He was talking to media just after performing inauguration of Rehabilitation Center of District Headquarters Hospital Badin. He was accompanied by Minister Agriculture Ismail Rahu, MNA Mir Ghulam Ali Talpur, Senator Sikandar Mendhro, MPA Taj Mohammad Malah and others.

To a question, the chief minister said that MQM stopped talking about division of Sindh whenever it entered into coalition with PPP government in Sindh. “This is why we have offered them to join us in Sindh and quit PTI government in the Center,” he said and added PPP wanted them to be partner with PPP to serve poor people of the province.

To another question, Mr Shah said that there was a mafia in educational boards. “We created A separate department of Universities & Boards which have controlled tempering with answer copies to some extent,” he said and added still the dept (U&B) has to work hard against examination mafias.

Replying to a question, he said that his government has allocated Rs20 billion for provision of safe and clean drinking water schemes all over Sindh. “We have given you good road network in Badin, gave you a best hospital and Inshallah will given a water supply scheme very soo ,” he told people of Badin and added ” you had deposed your confidence in PPP in last general elections and we would be serving you to the best of our abilities.

He said that he has directed Indus Hospital network CEO Dr Abdul Bari to prepare a 10-year plan that what was needed in District Badin. “We will establish a university or medical college or nursing Institute – whatever is needed we will establish here in Badin,” he vowed.

Talking about bulldozing of katchra houses constructed on encroached land, the chief minister said that the cabinet has already taken its decision that houses would not be removed until and unless alternative arrangements were made. However, he said that no new encroachment would allowed at any cost.

To a question, Murad Ali Shah said that he was working hard to establish right of people of Sindh on the natural gas being produced from Sindh “Out of eight members of CCI five supported him in implementation of Article 158 of the constitution,” he said and thanked the CCI for supporting him.

To a question about locust swarm, the chief minister said that the Plant Protection department of federal government was responsible for spray but their aircrafts were out of order and had no funds for the purpose. “I gave them Rs10 million grant to start their work but that also couldn’t happen accordingly,” he said and added he has given directives to his Agriculture Minister Ismail Rahu to hire aircrafts from UAE and China to spray the deserts where they have settled for breeding.

Inaugural ceremony: Addressing the inaugural ceremony, chief Minister Syed Murad Ali Shah said that under the vision of Shaheed Mohterma Benazir Bhutto a model for public private partnership (PPP) was envisaged. ” The objective was to involve public sector with the government for dear service delivery in different sectors, particularly in health and education,” he said and added that he was proud to say that the PPP mode in Sindh has delivered best services to the people of the province in health sector.

Mr Shah said that he wanted to take Indus Hospital People to Sehwan but Dr Sikandar Mendhro, being a doctor brought to Badin, he said in a lighter mood.

Talking about Physical Rehabilitation Center, the chief minister said that it was the fourth in Pakistan where artificial limbs were prepared and fixed to the patients to rehabilitate them. “This Center provides a great service to poor people of entire Lar area of the province,” he said.

The chief minister said that he visited Physical Rehabilitation Centre and saw various children were being treated and trained after fixing them artificial limbs.

Mr Shah deplored that the new Medical gratulates who come into the field lack dedication in their work. “This quite deplorable and need to be addressed,” he said. He added that there was shortage doctors, nurses and technicians in the hospitals all over Sindh. “We had appointed 6000 doctors but even then shortage persists,” he said.

The chief minister said that he never loses his temper in meetings, except the meetings of health department. “I always insist them [Dr] to be best in their profession,” he said.

He said that in order to over come the shortage of doctors, he offered incentives to the medical professionals working abroad but hardly a few of them came back.

Mr Shah said that most of the doctors joined politics and civil service but they always write doctor with their names, he told Dr Sikandar Mendhro in a lighter mood.

The chief minister said that DHQ Hospital Badin was one of the best hospitals of the country. “It was established at a cost of around Rs1 billion and it has almost all the departments, except Brain Surgery and Psychology,” he said and added the Physical Rehabilitation Center has been established for Rs50 million, of them 50 percent have been provided by donors.

The chief minister said that some detractors were making hue and cry that nothing has been given to Badin. “I am surprised that they can’t see this beautiful road network and state of art hospital,” he said Amal’s added people of Badin PPP to power in Sindh and the party government would be seeing them to the best of its abilities.

Earlier, the chief minister unveiled the plaque and cut the ribbon to inaugurate the Physical Rehabilitation Center. He visited different wards, witnessed formation of artificial limbs and physiotherapy of the patients.

The CEO of Indus Network, Dr Abdul Bari briefed the chief minister about different departments of the hospital and thanked him for his support.

On the occasion those who spoke at inaugural ceremony were Senator Dr Sikandar Mendhro, Dr Abdul Bari and Dr Zafar.

When the chief minister landed in Badin he was accorded historic ovation . He was showered with rose petals and was worn turban, Sindhi Ajrak sand Sindhi caps.