Published by Mike Draper at 4:30am 18th January 2020.

3 minute read

Members of the community are helping with a workshop to make feminine hygiene kits for young women in Uganda.

Anyone is welcome to come and join the 'Days for Girls' event today (Saturday 18 Jan)

It's on beteween 10.00am and 4.00pm

It's at St Mary's Church in Fordingbridge

You'll be helping with things like sewing, card making, ironing and adding accessories, for special hygiene kits being sent out to the African country

Everyone taking part in the workshop will be provided with tea, coffee and lunch

You can find out more by calling Reverend Nicky Davies on 07931 413629.

The workshop is on at St Mary's Church Hall in Fordingbridge

WHY THE HELP IS NEEDED?

Girls in the developing world are skipping school when it's their time of the month, because of things like the lack of washrooms, having no access to sanitary products and simply the embarrassment of bleeding.

A study's found that girls are in danger of losing a quarter of their education as a result of their menstrual cycle.

The workshop in Fordingbridge will help to make hygiene kits containing:

washable sanitary pads

knickers

flannels

soap

They'll then be distributed by the Diocese of Kinkiizi in Uganda, which is linked to the Avon Valley Partnership of churches here.

The kits will mean girls in Uganda will be able to continue their education with dignity

Irene Canton, Days for Girls Fordingbridge Team Leader said:

"The team would like to thank everyone for their generosity and skill in supporting the Days for Girls project so far. Our aim this time is to complete kits to send out in May this year with the next group visit. With your help we should be able to compile 100 bags. This means we will have made over 1,000 items, including bags, shields and liners."



"This day will be fun and sociable but we aim to make as many kits as we can to make a real difference to the girls in Kinkiizi."

The girls in Uganda with their hygiene kits from Days for Girls

READ MORE

Around 30 people took part in a similar workshop held last July in Fordingbridge.

There's also more information about the project itself on the Days for Girls website.