CLOSE

Editor's note: This is one of a series of RocRoots articles in observance of Black History Month.

--

As president and CEO of Jordan Health, Dr. Janice Harbin oversees an organization with 10 sites and hundreds of staff members who treat tens of thousands of patients annually.

Yet with all the inherent responsibilities, Harbin, a dentist, still sees patients twice weekly. It’s not just about number-crunching and meetings, even for the health network’s top administrator. That human touch is essential, Harbin said, considering the organization’s roots and namesake, Dr. Anthony L. Jordan.

“It’s very important for me to see patients,” Harbin said. “You’re here to serve with dignity and respect – that’s the legacy and the obligation that we have at Jordan. It’s an amazing legacy to be (a) steward of.”

Dr. Janice Harbin (Photo: Provided)

Jordan was Rochester’s second African-American medical doctor. He established his medical practice on Adams Street in 1932 and served patients for decades, frequently caring for the poor who had no place else to go and, often, no way to pay.

A tribute to his legacy

Buy Photo Dr. Anthony L. Jordan was said to have never turned anyone away. (Photo: Rochester Democrat and Chronicle file photo)

Perhaps the best-known site within the Jordan network is the Anthony L. Jordan Center on Holland Street, off Hudson Avenue. That was dedicated in 1973 as an evolution from the old Baden Street Health Center and, later, the Rochester Neighborhood Health Center.

The Jordan name was selected as a tribute for the doctor who was said to have never turned anyone away.

When Jordan died in 1971, a friend said in his obituary that he would tell patients, “Tell the Lord about me. There’ll be no charge.”

Patients who couldn’t afford a bill sometimes paid him in pies or flour or a book. Jordan made house calls for decades and only stopped because of failing eyesight.

Buy Photo May 1969: Dr. Anthony Jordan pictured at work. Jordan made house calls for decades and only stopped because of failing eyesight. He died in 1971. (Photo: Rochester Democrat and Chronicle file photo)

Jordan and his family lived above the office at 136 Adams St. until 1960. Patients came by all hours. One of Jordan’s daughters, Katherine, said in a news story, “We sort of lived with the people. He had loads and loads of patients. It got so that people were sitting on the porch, sitting on the steps. There were a lot of sick people.”

A native of what is now Guyana, Jordan immigrated to the U.S. for college, enrolled at Howard University and practiced in North Carolina and downstate in New York before coming to Rochester.

In the mid-1960s, Jordan received the New York State Medical Society’s presidential citation for outstanding service in his profession. The award noted that he had “given his life to serving the needy without thought of reward or recognition.” When he was honored at a 1967 dinner, Jordan said, “The doors of doctors’ offices are open to all, whether they have money or not.”

Family ties

Greer Gladney is a great-grandchild of Dr. Anthony L. Jordan. (Photo: Provided)

The benevolent spirit continues to this day – and Jordan family ties remain. Mildred Jordan Reynolds, one of the doctor’s daughters, is involved with the Jordan Health Foundation. A great-granddaughter of Dr. Jordan, Greer Gladney, is an administrative and digital marketing assistant with the organization.

“What’s always impressed on me is how much a center of the community this (place) is,” Gladney said. “The dedication to the service and the work, that’s what’s most important.”

Alan Morrell is a Rochester-based freelance writer.

More: Rochester’s black journalists have excelled in breaking barriers

Read or Share this story: https://www.democratandchronicle.com/story/news/local/rocroots/2020/02/11/dr-anthony-l-jordan-gave-his-life-serving-needy-rochester-ny/4714153002/