Today, you can celebrate a sort of Sino-Scottish mash-up of foods: you can enjoy dumplings, because it's the Lunar New Year, and you can fete Scottish poet Robbie Burns' 261st birthday and eat some haggis.

Dumplings and Noodles

It's the year of the rat (the critters are seen as clever and resourceful) in the traditional Chinese calendar and a couple of foods are key at this time of the year: dumplings and noodles.



As with many cultures, the new year in China signifies a fresh start. In Chinese culture, it's celebrated with fireworks, gifts and red packaging, among other rituals.

And food is in the foreground.

"Chinese New Year is about the start of a new life and new beginnings," says Ryan Wong, president of the Central Ontario Chinese Cultural Centre (COCCC). "It's supposed to bring in prosperity and good luck. The food tries to reflect that."



This year, the COCCC is celebrating with a Chinese buffet, music and dance at University of Waterloo's Fed Hall on February 2. It's a ticketed event but open to the public.



Looking at southeast Asia as a whole, Wong says, different cultures celebrate with different kinds of noodles.

"The common denominator with noodles is they represent longevity and longer life," says Wong.



The name for another celebratory dish, nian gao, translates to "new year cake."

"It's a play on words," says Wong. "There's another character (in the Chinese language) that sounds the same but means a wish to have a higher or better life."



As for dumplings, he says, they represent treasure. "The way some of the dumplings are shaped are like the ingots of ancient China offering you more wealth and fortune," says Wong.

The more folds in the dumpling, the more prosperous you will become.



These symbols are often regionally based, given the varied populations in the country.



Yu-Ming Gao, owner of Gol's Lanzhou Noodle in Waterloo, sees one split between north and south.



"Food traditions for Chinese New Year actually vary by region," he says. "The most common ones are dumplings for people in the northern part of China and sweet rice ball for southern Chinese."



Most Chinese restaurants in the region (such as Cameron Seafood in Kitchener, Waterloo's Crystal Palace, and Mama Jean Kitchen in Cambridge) are serving their usual noodles and dumplings, the latter especially if they serve dim sum.



King Wok in Kitchener will have both meat and veg dumplings; King Tin in Waterloo will serve a special 10-course Chinese menu, and Mandarin Restaurant in Kitchener will have their "Dumpling Festival," including popular "soup dumplings," running until February 23.



For a different dumpling, check out Hakka Hut in Cambridge for Indo-Chinese momo dumplings with meat and veg as well as Bogda, a Uyghur restaurant, for piter manta dumplings with lamb and onion. Sushi restaurants, along with Japanese restaurants such as Kitchener's Crafty Ramen and Izna, serve gyoza dumplings, while Watami in Waterloo has gyoza soup.



While it's off the Chinese dumpling trail, Chopan Kabob on Highland Road near Belmont serves mantoo, a steamed dumpling stuffed with ground beef and onions and a garlic yogurt sauce.

They're very good.

Haggis: a divisive food

Although there are several ways to enjoy the menu (meat or vegetarian) for Lunar New Year, a Burns Night supper can be problematic.

Haggis is among the most polarizing foods —you either love it or you hate it, with little middle ground.