The Xiaomi Mi 10 will be revealed next week, in the company of the respective Pro version. To tease the upcoming smartphones, here we have the first results obtained by its zoom lens.

The images were shared by Lu Weibing, on the Chinese social network Weibo. As a caption, the director of Redmi says: ” It snowed in Beijing, by the way, the new phone works very well “.

It is true that Weibing does not mention which smartphone is in question, but it is practically certain that it is one of the Mi 10 models. Firstly, because it is the one that is closest to being revealed and, secondly, it is said that the Redmi K30 Pro does not have a zoom lens.

It should not falter in the photographic segment

As you can see from the shared images, the quality of the zoom photo is great. It shows excellent preservation of details, even when the atmospheric conditions are not perfect.

The data regarding the zoom lens of the Xiaomi Mi 10 is not yet clear and these images do not help us to solve this mystery. It shows us only the results and they will not disappoint.

I recall that the Xiaomi Mi 9 surprised by obtaining 110 points on the DxOMark platform. At the time of its presentation, this was Xiaomi‘s best smartphone for photography and was among the leading smartphones on the market.

That said, we expect that the Chinese company wants to repeat the feat with the Xiaomi Mi 10. That is why we say that this model will not falter in the camera and these results are promising.

Xiaomi Mi 10 specifications

6.57″ AMOLED screen

Fingerprint sensor on the screen

90Hz refresh rate

Qualcomm Snapdragon 865 processor

6GB RAM memory (in one of the variants, we will have more)

128GB internal memory (in one of the variants, we will have more)

108MP main camera (OIS f / 1.8)

Camera 2: 20MP wide-angle 117º

Camera 3: 5MP with 5X zoom and OIS

4800 mAh battery

30W fast charging

The presentation of the Mi 10 and Mi 10 Pro should take place on February 13th. We do not know their arrival date at the stores yet, but it may take between one and two months to reach the worldwide markets.