The video will start in 8 Cancel

Sign up to FREE email alerts from Daily Star - Daily News Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A group of mapping experts believe they have pinpointed the exact locations where flight MH370 has to be.

Malaysian startup company Gunung Mengalir Resources has used a breakthrough in cartography to provide what it hopes will be too major leads in the search for the missing aircraft.

The Malaysia Airlines flight disappeared on March 8, 2014, with 239 passengers and crew on board.

It took off from the Malaysian capital Kuala Lumpur, bound for Beijing, China.

But it vanished from radar in an area of the South China Sea.

(Image: Getty Images/Hemis.fr RM)

Now experts from the Malaysian firm have exclusively told Daily Star Online why they believe they may have found the missing link in the greatest aviation mystery.

Sopian, a spokesman for the firm, said Gunung Mengalir Resources had "managed to get the important breakthrough about the accurate interpretation of modelling mathematics for a geostationary satellite-based burst timing offset (BTO) signals for MH370."

He went on: "Using the published BTO data from the Department of Civil Aviation (DCA) Malaysia, the company has successfully proven that the airplane BTO logged data consists of two dedicated origins.

"We used big data analysis to extract back all the MH370 communication log."

Sopian explained there are more than 20 signals or "ping rings" which we can use to determine the location of MH370.

He said: "There are two origins located at Inmarsat sub-satellite earth point located at 0째 N, 64.5째 E and Ground Earth Station (GES), Perth, Australia 31.80째 S, 115.89째E GES where the signal started."

(Image: Gunung Mengalir Resources)

Sopian added: "Intersection ping rings for MH370's location can be verified and are consistent with Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS) report time 4.56pm local time and 5.07pm local time.

"It is also consistent and can be verified with the Royal Malaysian Air Force (RMAF) statement which says the RMAF 'saw' MH370 in their radar at 6.22pm near MEKAR aviation waypoint."

Sopian finished by saying that there are only two possible locations where the remains of MH370 could be.

(Image: Getty Images/iStockphoto)

These are either the Andaman Sea or near Reunion Island in the Indian Ocean.

"Since the BTO ping ring tracking model cannot discriminate the true location out of the two intersections, both locations have an equal chance of being the true location."

There have been a number of missions to find the plane since it went missing.

Earlier this month, MH370 investigator said he would "definitely" go back to Cambodia to try and find the aircraft.