Instagrammers are spoiling once great and unique locations just to grab the perfect pic. Overcrowding, bad behaviour and local unrest has seen popular tourist cities fight back.

Security staff at one of China’s most sacred cultural sites have apologised for allowing two wealthy women to drive their car into the centre of the Beijing treasure.

Lu Xiaobao was caught up in public fury after posting pictures of herself posing with a friend on their car bonnet in the central courtyard of the Forbidden City in Beijing.

While the pictures were promptly deleted, the images gained viral attention online. The Palace Museum was bombarded by angry citizens asking for an explanation as to why the women were allowed to drive onto the sacred site.

A statement from the site’s museum said it was “deeply distressed and sincerely apologises to the public”.

A statement to the BBC said the incident happened on Monday last week, with the knowledge of the site security.

The Imperial city at the centre of Beijing is a UNESCO World Heritage site and, due to its cultural sensitivity, is heavily guarded.

The images of Lu Xiaobao first appeared on the Chinese social media site Weibo on Friday. The images of the two influential women apparently enjoying a private audience of the city in her 4x4 car led to some uncomfortable questions.

On one of the deleted social media posts, the BBC reported Lu had written: “On Monday the Palace Museum is closed, so I hurried over, hid from the crowds, and went to play in the Forbidden City.”

The city is normally closed to the public on Mondays for restoration work.

The fact that the women were granted a special audience in the city, which was closed to the public, was infuriating, but to be seen flaunting a luxury car in the sacred site gained the post viral contempt from social media users.

The hashtag #DrivingIntoTheForbiddenCity went viral over the weekend.

“Deleting the pictures is useless; the entire Chinese nation has seen them,” said one upset fan of Chinese culture.

Some users have speculated the picture’s depiction of luxury and privilege that the photos seem to flaunt has riled up the whole nation.

Air China confirmed that Lu had worked as a flight attendant for the company, though she had “left the company a number of years ago”.

This article originally appeared on the New Zealand Herald and was reproduced with permission