A woman who lost her leg when she was hit by a taxi in New York has told how she had a prosthetic limb made out of a vintage Louis Vuitton bag.

Sian Green-Lord, 29, from Leicester, was struck by the yellow cab near the Rockefeller Center shortly after arriving in the city for a holiday in 2013.

The aspiring model, who studied fashion buying at university, was rushed to hospital following the accident but later had her leg amputated.

Sian Green-Lord, 29, from Leicester, had only arrived in the city when she was mown down by the yellow cab near the Rockefeller Center in midtown Manhattan in 2013

She was fitted with a prosthetic leg but that didn't stop the mother-of-one from letting her stylish flair shine through, and she came up with the idea to have her prosthetic limb transformed by her designer gear.

'It's going to sound really corny but it actually came to me in a dream, that I had this super leg and I remember telling my husband in the morning. He was like "why is that crazy? Why don't you just do it?" And I was like "OK",' She told the BBC.

'I wasn't able to wear heels because you need the foot prosthetics to be able to wear them. I just thought if I'm going to go big with this leg it has to be a heel foot.'

Sian revealed she found the perfect pair of matching Louis Vuitton heels to go with her new leg, and luckily the new prosthetic fitted perfectly into them.

'I had a vintage holdall bag, so I used that. I actually found the boots after, which was when I went into Louis Vuitton. I thought 'they're not going to fit'. I had my heart set on them. But I fit just like a dream,' she told the BBC.

Sian revealed she found the perfect pair of matching Louis Vuitton heels to go with her new leg, and luckily the new prosthetic fitted perfectly into them

The prosthetic didn't stop the mother-of-one from letting her stylish flair shine through, and she came up with the idea to have her prosthetic limb transformed by her designer gear

The mother, who models and is a motivational speaker in schools, says her new look has given her bags of confidence - and she documents her stylish looks on her Instagram page.

And Sian says she now receives floods of message from fellow amputees who say it's the best prosthetic leg they have seen.

Sian, then 23, had just bought a hot dog and was eating at the plaza with her best friend when the taxi mounted the kerb.

The aspiring model, who studied fashion buying at university, was rushed to hospital following the freak accident but sadly had her leg amputated and was later fitted with a prosthetic leg

A plumber used his belt to make a life-saving tourniquet for her leg while a pizza truck owner raced to put her severed foot on ice.

Witnesses said the vehicle was on Sixth Avenue and 49th Street when it hit a cyclist before jumping the curb, crashing into Sian and coming to a stop by a fountain.

Sian, who studyied to be a fashion buyer a De Montfort University Leicester, was conscious throughout the ordeal and was rushed to Bellevue Hospital where she underwent surgery. One of her legs was severed at the ankle and she suffered injuries to the other.