Ethiopian Airlines is a well-known African giant. With an incredible route network, Ethiopian is a tough airline to beat in Africa. However, the airline is not showing any signs of slowing down. It appears that Ethiopian is looking at launching flights to three new destinations in China.

Ethiopian Airlines eyes three new destinations in China

Xinhuanet reports that Ethiopian Airlines is eyeing flights to three new destinations in China. These three are Chongqing, Shenzhen, and Zhengzhou. Ethiopian has not officially announced these three routes. However, it appears that the airline is going through the bureaucratic process before officially launching these flights. In addition, it appears that Ethiopian is looking at increasing some frequencies on current flights to key destinations like Guangzhou.

These flights could draw on a mixed crowd. Most likely, passengers would not connect out of Ethiopian to another carrier in either Chongqing, Shenzhen, or Zhengzhou. Instead, Ethiopian would likely bring these passengers out of Africa and perhaps other destinations via a connection in Addis Ababa.

Advertisement

How could Ethiopian launch these flights?

These cities are easily within range for either Dreamliner or Airbus A350 flights. With both types on order, expansion is not out of line for Ethiopian. Both of these latest-generation aircraft will be a comfortable way to make the trek from Addis Ababa to China.

Advertisement Featured Video:

But, Ethiopian could add a little twist on these flights. The airline is a fan of fifth-freedom routes. This includes a recent launch of flights to Houston from Addis Ababa via Lome. Although, that stop is largely due to Addis Ababa being a hot and dry airport that limits some aircraft performance.

Nevertheless, Ethiopian could find a way to add even more destinations to its already expansive network through fifth-freedom flights. Most likely, in this case, Ethiopian would fly onwards out of these destinations to other East Asian cities.

Advertisement

Ethiopian’s Chinese network

Ethiopia’s flag-carrier already flies to Beijing, Chengdu, Guangzhou, and Shanghai from Addis Ababa. In addition, Ethiopian also operates a flight to Hong Kong. All of these destinations are sources of huge tourist and business travel. With these three new routes, Ethiopian would fly to an impressive total of seven destinations in China.

Overall

These new routes would be a huge bonus for travelers looking for one-stop flights across a host of destinations in Africa. While Ethiopian Airlines has not confirmed the launch of any of these routes, it would not be out of line for the carrier to expand and inaugurate three new flights to China.

Would you fly Ethiopian Airlines to Chongqing, Zhengzhou, or Shenzen in China? What do you think about Ethiopian Airlines’ expansion plans? Let us know in the comments!

Simple Flying reached out to Ethiopian Airlines for comment, however, Ethiopian did not respond in time for publication.