One of Canada’s most positive-minded citizens is sitting in quarantine at CFB Trenton, counting down the 10 remaining days until he can come home to his family in Ottawa.

Kai Huang is a software developer for the RCMP and lives in the Stonebridge neighbourhood of Barrhaven. He and his mother are quarantined because they were evacuated from China to escape the novel coronavirus.

And now that jet lag has worn off (after a 12-hour flight to Vancouver and five more hours to Ottawa), he’s counting his blessings.

“I’m doing good, very good. Thank you very much,” he said in a phone call.

“Emotionally I really feel peaceful and safe here and very excited that we got here. We are very happy and excited,” he said.

The two of them share a motel room with its own bathroom, TV, fridge and microwave on the ground of CFB Trenton. They can go outdoors — he likes to get some fresh air — but there’s a fence that they are not supposed to pass.

“There are close to 400 people here right now,” from three flights, he said.

Huang and his mother remain healthy. He doesn’t know much about others at Trenton because they are not supposed to mix, even when they go outdoors.

Instead his social circle is the number of friends and family he talks to through WeChat, a messenger app. He talks to his family several times a day.

And he feels safe in Trenton, since the medical staff checks his temperature twice a day and there is emergency treatment available nearby if anyone feels uncomfortable.

“The food is a lot of food every day, three meals a day,” he said. “They provide mostly western food so it’s very good for western people, but of course for Chinese people — for my mom especially” it’s a bit more challenging. “But we still appreciate it. They provide very good accommodation and meals.”

We asked whether he might request some Chinese food but he said no: “I would feel guilty” because the staff are working hard to take care of him and his mother.

“We really appreciate Canada’s government taking care of us. Even in this critical situation in China, Canada never forgot us,” he said.

tspears@postmedia.com

twitter.com/TomSpears1

ALSO IN THE NEWS

Record number of organ transplants performed in Ontario last year

Coroner’s inquest to be launched for Babak Saidi, who died in struggle with OPP

‘Holy crap’: Ottawa woman who went viral for pizza box video makes cameo in Oscar-winning movie Parasite