Canton — The Salvation Army Massachusetts Division honored Acushnet residents Vinny and Mary Plourde with the prestigious Al MacLeod Volunteer Award for their many years of dedication and service to the organization, according to a press release. The Salvation Army’s Al MacLeod Volunteer Award is presented to individuals who serve as compassionate role models while serving others.

Vinny and Mary Plourde have been volunteering with The Salvation Army Massachusetts Division for 17 years. Vinny volunteered initially at the Christmas Castle in 2003 and was struck by the passion and commitment that this event inspired. In 2004, he brought his wife, Mary, on board to co-chair the Christmas Castle Committee. Since that time, Vinny and Mary have continued, and expanded, their involvement with The Salvation Army Massachusetts Division volunteering at the annual Thanksgiving dinner basket distribution and serving as key members of the Kroc Capital Campaign and Kroc Programming Committees to raise funds and develop programs to launch the Salvation Army’s Ray & Joan Kroc Community Center in Dorchester.

“Vinny and Mary have been longtime Salvation Army volunteers and dedicated members of the community. They have been instrumental in supporting The Christmas Castle and we are honored to present them with this award for their exceptional service,” said Major Marcus Jugenheimer, general secretary of The Salvation Army Massachusetts Division in the press release. “Vinny and Mary exemplify the spirit and commitment of the volunteers that help us fulfill our mission. They have witnessed firsthand the vital work of The Salvation Army and the multitude of programs focused on making a genuine difference in the lives of those in need.”

Vinny, a former Blue Cross Blue Shield executive, joined The Salvation Army’s Greater Boston Advisory Board, taking a direct hand in the governance of the Massachusetts Division in addition to becoming a donor. In addition, Vinny joined a group of Army officers and board members on a relief mission to Caguas, Puerto Rico in February 2018 to help with recovery efforts after Hurricane Maria.

Since Vinny and Mary began their involvement with The Salvation Army began, they have been joined by many family and friends who have, in turn, recruited their family and friends to make this a fundamental part of their holiday giving.

“The Salvation Army has become a big part of our lives,” said Vinny Plourde in the release. “It’s impossible to see these programs in action and not be compelled to get involved and do more. The work of The Salvation Army Massachusetts Division is changing, and saving, lives. Its our honor to be a part of it.”

Vinny and Mary are both retired and have three children and six grandchildren. They have been married for 39 years and reside in Acushnet.

The Al MacLeod Outstanding Volunteer Award recognizes a long-time Salvation Army volunteer who serves as an inspirational role model for compassion, service and sacrifice on behalf of others that goes above and beyond what is asked or expected.