SOON+ is a plant-based derma beauty brand that offer solutions for consumers with sensitive skin while adhering to a clean beauty philosophy.

The brand was inspired by SOON. Launched in 1988, it was the first brand the company successfully launched in France but failed to capture market share.

According to Amorepacific, the new incarnation of the brand carries 30 years of research and technology recognised by research institutes in the US.

Unlike other Amorepacific brands like Innisfree, Etude House and Mamonde, SOON+ carries only three products: a cleansing foam, a balancing water and a balancing emulsion.

Bomi Lee of SOON+, Amorepacific told CosmeticsDesign-Asia​ that SOON+ filled an important gap in Amorepacific’s portfolio catering to millennials who are looking for efficacy-driven brands.

“Amorepacific has many premium brands for young people like Laniege, Mamonde and Innisfree, but nowadays, derma brands are becoming more popular and trendier in South Korea,”​ she said.

Sensitive skin solution

The brand officially launched in July 2019 has been well-received by consumers in their 20s who like its non-sticky light textures which allow them to comfortable wear make-up on top, said Lee.

All three products contain a probiotic ingredient derived from kimchi, a fermented vegetable dish that is staple in Korean cuisine.

“We used kimchi-derived ingredient because it’s something South Koreans are familiar with. They know about probiotics because of kimchi,”​ said Lee.

This is the company’s first brand focused on probiotics and microbiome, a topic which is gaining interest among South Korean consumers.

Lee explained that consumers associated probiotics and microbiome with strengthening the skin barrier, an attractive feature for those with sensitive skin.

Additionally, the products all have a weak acidic formula of pH5.5 to cater to consumers with sensitive skin.

“Sensitive skin issues are growing in South Korea. We are seeing products for sensitive skin becoming more and more popular,”​ she said.

She attributed the rise of sensitive skin concerns to environmental concerns and believed it is influencing the South Korean consumer’s entire approach to beauty.

“Around three to five years ago, the 10-step skin care routine was very popular. But today, because of changing weather and environment, more women are experiencing skin irritation. Using many products on your skin can cause even more irritation, which is why a minimalist routine of three, maybe even one product is trendier now,” ​said Lee.

The company is focusing on South Korea for now but has plane to launch the brand into China “in the near future” ​as it hopes to capitalise on derma beauty and clean beauty trends.

Lee said the company does not have plans to expand the brand into other Asian countries, Europe or the Americas. However, she said the company has not ruled out the possibility.

“We want to launch in China first for now. We have no other plans, but we have made some preparations just in case.”​