Our selection of the most impressive architecture and design roles on Dezeen Jobs this week includes positions at Herzog & de Meuron and Foster + Partners.

Senior architect at Herzog & de Meuron

Herzog & de Meuron is seeking a senior architect to work on Chinese projects from its office in Basel, Switzerland. Completed over 20 years ago, Dominus Winery is a low-lying monolithic winery in Napa Valley, with gabion walls that filter natural light into the interiors.

Browse more roles for senior architects ›

3D generalist at Foster + Partners

Foster + Partner designed a seven-storey department store for Galeries Lafayette in Luxembourg, which features a faceted glass and steel facade made from transparent and bronze-coloured panels. The architecture firm has an opportunity for a 3D generalist to join its in-house visualisation team in London.

Browse all visualisation roles ›

Design architect at S9 Architecture

S9 Architecture is looking for a senior design architect to join its practice in New York. The studio designed a huge co-working building aimed at technology and creative industries in Brooklyn Navy Yard, which steps down towards the waterfront it sits on.

Browse more roles in the US ›

Graphic design lead at Herman Miller

Herman Miller recently released a series of limited-edition tables based on Charles and Ray Eames' original design and made from eucalyptus trees that were felled at the Eames' property in Los Angeles. The furniture brand is hiring a graphic design lead to join its team in Massachusetts.

Browse all graphic design jobs ›

Product-design project manager at Jouin Manku

Jouin Manku has an opening for a product-design project manager to join its office in Paris. The studio transformed a former priory into a hotel and restaurant in the French monastic city of Fontevraud, adding a publicly-accessible bar with "alter-like" monolithic seating.

Browse all product design roles ›

See all the latest architecture and design roles on Dezeen Jobs ›