The UK tech sector raked in investments totalling £10.1bn ($13.2bn) in 2019, an increase by £3.1bn from 2018, with its growth rate surpassing both the US and China.

The country is now behind the US ($116bn) and China ($33.5bn) for the total venture capital funding secured in 2019.

The figures are part of the findings of a research undertaken by Tech Nation and Dealroom for the UK’s Digital Economy Council.

According to the study, UK firms, between January and December 2019, bagged a third of the £30.4bn of total investment in Europe last year. The UK tech sector secured more venture capital (VC) investment than Germany (£5.4bn) and France (£3.4bn) even when combined.

Tech Nation chief executive Gerard Grech said: “In 2019 the UK secured a formidable 33% of all European Tech investment, at £10.1bn, despite accounting for roughly 9% of Europe’s population. Equally exciting is the rapid expansion of digital tech growth across the UK regions, which augurs well for national GDP growth and a truly connected Britain.”



The report said that there was a spike in the number of fast-growing UK tech companies as venture capital investment moved up by 44% last year. The VC investment in the UK tech firms had a growth rate that crossed 40% for a third successive year.

As per Tech Nation, investments in France in 2019 increased slightly over a third compared to 2018, while the investments in Israel moved up by a fifth.

UK Digital Secretary Nicky Morgan said: “These brilliant new numbers demonstrate the strength of the UK tech industry and how it is a sweet spot of our economy.

“Our tech companies are not only commanding the confidence of global investors but they are also creating new jobs and wealth across the country.

“It’s absolutely vital we maintain this impressive success and in Government we are working tirelessly to make sure the conditions are right.”

As far as cities are concerned, London joins the likes of San Francisco Bay Area, Beijing, and New York to be the most-funded locations in the world.

The report revealed that London-based companies bagged £7.4bn investments in 2019.

Nearly half of the UK investments in 2019, at £4.6bn, were from the US and Asian investors. The report said that recently, the UK tech sector had also gone past the US for foreign investment per capita.

Furthermore, the UK tech industry added eight more unicorns, that is billion-dollar companies, in 2019 taking its overall tally till date to 77.