Karl Mayer celebrates 25 years in Changzhou

(fFom left to right, foreground): Yang Zengxing, General Manager of Karl Mayer(CHINA) as well as Arno Gärtner, CEO, and Roland Kohn, member of the extended Karl Mayer management team cut the birthday cake. © Karl Mayer.

On 17 January, Karl Mayer (CHINA) had reason to celebrate twice - the subsidiary of the renowned Karl Mayer Group celebrated both Chinese New Year and its 25th anniversary. The company-wide event was held in Changzhou and the entire workforce and management representatives from Germany, Hong Kong and Japan – including CEO Arno Gärtner – all took part in the festivities.

“Way back when it all began, there was a vision - a belief that China would one day become the world’s most important market,” Arno Gärtner recalled when reminiscing about the early days. Building on this belief, Wujin Textile Machinery Co Ltd was founded in 1995 as a joint venture with a Chinese partner and just four years later, Karl Mayer acquired all of the shares in the joint venture. Together with Nippon Mayer, the manufacturer set up Karl Mayer Textile Machinery Ltd as its own entity in Changzhou, and in 2005 formed Karl Mayer (CHINA) Ltd. A phase of continual expansion followed.

In 2008, the company moved to a new plant with a surface area of 170,000 m². In 2011, the production of knitting machines was expanded to include the manufacture of warp preparation equipment and in the following year, production was expanded again. The latest but no less important milestone in the company’s history was the establishment of KM.ON CHINA, a subsidiary of Karl Mayer’s software start-up KM.ON, in June 2019.

Karl Mayer (CHINA) currently employs around 800 people in Changzhou and following a ten-year economic boom, the company achieved the best results in its history in 2018. With its proximity to the main market – around 70% of warp-knitted textiles are produced in China – it is an important member of the Group. “There is no doubt that Karl Mayer’s success over the last 15 years is largely down to Karl Mayer (CHINA),” said Arno Gärtner at the anniversary celebrations.

“In order to operate at an even closer proximity to customers in the main Chinese market, the significance of the subsidiary in Changzhou will continue to grow - over the past 10 years, an enormous capacity for textile production has been established in China. At the moment, however, China’s geopolitical situation has led to slow growth. Karl Mayer must be able to adapt flexibly to this situation,” the company said.

“As the market leader, we want to be the first to recognise market developments and respond with more innovative solutions offering maximum customer benefit based on buyers’ requirements,” said Arno Gärtner. In order to always be one step ahead, Karl Mayer (CHINA) will assume more responsibility for its customers and for solutions, and KM.ON’s activities will be further expanded.

www.karlmayer.com