Sign up to FREE email alerts from Daily Record - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

New Rovers barmaid Sian Reeves admitted she was “very emotional” when she walked into the famous soap bar for the first time.

The 53-year-old, from West Bromwich, who played Emmerdale baddie Sally Spode in 2009, joins the cast as Charlie Wood, the secret wife of Tim Metcalfe (Joe Duttine).

And as a fan since her childhood in the West Midlands, she found it overwhelming to be in the Weatherfield bolthole.

Admitting she got teary, Reeves said: “I’ve watched Coronation Street since I was a little girl, so I was a bit emotional when I walked into the Rovers bar for the first time.

“There are so many memories attached for me from watching with my grandparents. I remember Ena Sharples, Annie Walker, all the black and white episodes with William Roache, so it was a very emotional time. I’ve had a very warm welcome, it’s been lovely.”

Her latest soap role gives Reeves the treble. She had five episodes on EastEnders as Elaine Jarvis in 2006 and played Spode in Emmerdale in 2009. Now, Corrie.

She even auditioned for another part – which she didn’t get. But fate was on her side.

Reeves admitted: “I’ve been flirting with Coronation Street for quite a while. I’ve always wanted to be in it. I got down to the final screen test to play Gina, Sally’s sister, and Sally and Michael were so lovely that when this part came up, I was thrilled.

“The character of Charlie Wood has ticked every box for me and I still get to work with Sally. Joe Duttine is also good fun to work with as well, this storyline has got Tim in such a spin.”

Reeves has been a jobbing actress since the 80s. She was part of the original 1985 cast of musical Les Miserables with Michael Ball before her big telly breakthrough as Sydney Henshall in BBC’s much-loved hairdressing drama Cutting It.

But disaster struck in 2007 when she was nearly paralysed after falling through a stage trapdoor during rehearsals for a play in April 2007.

She suffered a punctured lung and fractured ribs but only needed overnight hospital treatment. There was no quick recovery though and she spent the next year in constant pain, unable to get out of bed and go back to work.

Reeves said: “I was only in there for three minutes but it felt like an eternity.

“I tried to call out for help but I couldn’t because my lung was punctured.

“My ribs were broken and my whole chest was in agony. I was terrified no one was going to come to help me.”

(Image: BBC)

It was a long road to recovery but despite having nerve damage, the mum of one got a “second chance” on female gangster drama Hope Springs in 2009 and in the years since has worked on shows such as Mount Pleasant, Still Open All Hours and Doctors.

Reeves popped up as Charlie at the end of last year and on Wednesday she’ll be back – until the end of the month.

But she’s ticked off a lot of her bucket list and is hopeful of another return.

She said: “I’d love to work with David Neilson (Roy), get my hair done with Audrey and I didn’t get to meet Barbara Knox, which I would have adored. I did, however, get to meet the lovely William Roache and I had a great scene with Bev Callard, who was so welcoming.

“I got on the cobbles and behind the bar of the Rovers, so I ticked a lot of boxes. It’s emotional in the Rovers, Betty is there on the wall and it’s full of nostalgia. I’m very proud to have been a little part of it.”

Viewers got all gooey when unlucky-in-love Sally Metcalfe (Sally Dynevor) married Tim in 2015 – despite kissing her ex Kevin (Michael Le Vell).

The taxi rank owner and home beer brewer became a Weatherfield hero for his part in entrapping Pat Phelan two years ago. But in December he discovered he is a bigamist, already married to air hostess Charlie, following a drunken wedding in Las Vegas in 2004.

When they met in a bar last year, Charlie joked that Tim would have to pay her off before she agreed to a divorce. Now she’s back claiming she can’t afford the fees for her divorce.

But Reeves insisted her character isn’t a gold-digger. She said: “She is a nice person, she’s not a bitch, who’s just trying to get money out of Tim. I think she is in some financial difficulty, she’s lost her job, everything has escalated and she’s quite nervy.

“So this all works out like a dream for her. She finds a job on the street, a home and a potential divorce settlement. I think she is quite endearing. Tim found her, not the other way round, and he’s the one who hasn’t come clean.”

(Image: WireImage)

At first, Charlie thinks there might be a spark between her and Tim – mistaking him being nice to get her to sign the divorce papers as him liking her still.

Tim doesn’t help himself by saying Sally is his sister.

Corrie fans have a lot of time for Tim and Sally but Reeves is fighting her character’s corner and refuses to admit she is after her husband’s money.

She said: “I think it’s opportunistic, it all just works out so well for her. He’s turned up and is plaguing her with phone calls, making out he’s someone who cares. I think being an air hostess, she’s never had a home or roots and suddenly she’s 40.

“She wants a future with him, she sees he has a daughter, she’s ready to be a step-mum, she thinks she could make a life here for herself.”

Coronation Street airs Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays on STV.