Lights, camera, action, etc etc. And while we're at it, make-up, smart suit, implausibly sparkly dress. Oh, and let's throw in rictus grin, insincere really-glad-she-won-face, and pithy soundbite. Because yes, the Oscars are upon us again. Sunday evening will see the great, the good, and the whoever-hasn't-been-blacklisted-yet-on-grounds-of-alleged-sexual-misconduct, of the acting world, gather in Hollywood for the 92nd Academy Awards. There will be speeches. There will be tears. There will be a TV audience in the UK that falls asleep on the sofa somewhere around the third presentation, and is forced to catch up via a highlights package on Monday night.

But never mind the statuettes, the razzle-dazzle and the endless morning-after tittle-tattle about who ended up at which party with whom. What of the movies themselves - and, especially, of their capacity to make us visit the places they depict on the big screen?

The following list is neither exhaustive, nor a guide to the films most likely to scoop a gong or two while Scarlett Johansson claps politely. But each of the included movies is nominated in at least one category, and was set or crafted in a place which merits further inspection in real life.

That means no mention of the hugely acclaimed Marriage Story (a vague New York-Los Angeles backstop) or Jojo Rabbit (largely committed to camera in a rural swathe of the Czech Republic, to the north and west of Prague), but a round of applause, and potted how-to-do-it directions, for the likes of 1917, Little Women, Once Upon A Time In Hollywood, and The Two Popes.

And that's a wrap.

Florence Pugh (left) and Saoirse Ronan (centre) have both received Oscars nominations for their performances in Little Women Credit: Sony Pictures/Wilson Webb

Little Women

Categories: Best Picture, Actress In A Leading Role, Actress In A Supporting Role, Costume Design, Original Score, Adapted Screenplay

The latest adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's much-read 1868 novel may have chalked up Oscar nominations for two of its stars (Saoirse Ronan and Florence Pugh - although Greta Gerwig is curiously absent from the directorial shortlist), but its success owes as much to its delightful setting as the quality of the performances. The camera lingers lovingly on rural Massachusetts - particularly in and around Concord, a suitably picturesque town, 20 miles north-west of Boston, where, amid the genteel burble of everyday life in New England, the mid-19th century does not seem so wholly removed.

Location you can visit: The Bradley Estate (thetrustees.org; US$5/£3.70), a country house in Canton, 20 miles south of Boston, which takes a turn on screen as the home of Aunt March (as played by Meryl Streep). Named after a former owner, it was constructed in 1902 - and is still surrounded by the landscaped grounds, whispering trees, ornamental ponds and wandering pathways that the titular Eleanor Cabot Bradley added in 1945.

Take a break: Bon Voyage (0800 316 3012; bon-voyage.co.uk) dispenses a 12-night "New England Luxury Inns" self-drive getaway which explores Massachusetts in leisurely detail. From £2,695 per person, including flights, accommodation and car hire.

Ford v Ferrari finds Matt Damon (left) and Christian Bale on fine form Credit: Landmark Media/Supplied by LMK

Ford v Ferrari

Categories: Best Picture, Sound Editing, Film Editing, Sound Mixing

The oil-stained story of the battle to win the 1966 edition of the famous 24 Hours of Le Mans endurance race might not sound the most obvious subject to earn potential Oscar glory - and indeed, Ford v Ferrari is the first motorsports-related film to make it to the Academy's shortlist. But it has been catapulted there by engaging performances from Matt Damon (as a car designer tasked with designing a Ford fast enough to break Ferrari's mid-Sixties stranglehold on the event) and Christian Bale (as the cantankerous British racing driver charged with getting it over the finishing line first). The fact that none of the movie was filmed anywhere near the French city does not harm its impact.

Location you can visit: The Auto Club Speedway (autoclubspeedway.com), a California race-track which stands in on screen for its more famous Florida counterpart, Daytona International Speedway. Located in Fontana, 50 miles east of downtown Los Angeles, the Auto Club stages regular NASCAR events (tickets from US$45/£35) - but has an extra appeal for petrolheads in that, should you have the nerve, you can take to its tarmac yourself. Nascar Racing Experience is one of several operators with access to the asphalt for four-wheeled fun (from $99/£76; nascarracingexperience.com).

Take a break: A seven-night bed-and-breakfast stay at four-star hotel The Grafton on Sunset (Strip) in West Hollywood, flying from Heathrow on March 21, costs from £1,372 per person, through Virgin Holidays (0344 739 0930; virginholidays.co.uk).

Cynthia Erivo is hugely compelling in Harriet Credit: Focus Features/Glen Wilson

Harriet

Categories: Actress In A Leading Role, Original Song

It should be no surprise that Cynthia Erivo's powerful performance as Harriet Tubman - the 19th century slave-turned-abolitionist - has been recognised in the "Best Actress" category. But while the subject matter of Harriet may be weighty - having escaped her own bondage in Maryland, Tubman worked tirelessly to free other slaves in the American South, becoming a "conductor" on the "Underground Railroad" of safe-houses for fugitives fleeing north in the 1850s - this beautifully-filmed movie can also be the backdrop to a holiday. Much of it was shot, not in Maryland but in Virginia - a state whose rural contours and lengthy coastline make it an ideal setting for a road trip.

Location you can visit: The Berkeley Plantation (berkeleyplantation.com; $15/£11.50), near Charles City in eastern Virginia, was deployed on camera as the Brodess Farm (which still exists, in private hands, in Bucktown, Maryland) - where Tubman was born in March 1822, and from which she escaped (twice) in the autumn of 1849. The Virginia property enjoys a spectacular location on the James River, 20 miles upstream from the state's two must-see colonial sites - Jamestown and Williamsburg.

Take a break: Complete North America (0115 961 0590; completenorthamerica.com) sells a 14-night "Washington DC & Southern USA" fly-drive holiday which meanders south from the US capital, cutting through Virginia, and North and South Carolina, en route to Georgia. From £2,778 per person, including flights, car and accommodation.

Joker is tipped to secure several Oscar statuettes Credit: AP/Niko Tavernise

Joker

Categories: Best Picture, Actor In A Leading Role, Cinematography, Costume Design, Director, Film Editing, Makeup, Original Score, Sound Editing, Sound Mixing, Adapted Screenplay

Todd Phillips's fantastically dark origin story for Batman's eternally flamboyant nemesis has attracted acclaim and controversy (in almost equal measure) for its coverage of mental-health issues and its bursts of violence - and, nominated in 11 categories, it is likely to sweep up a gleaming handful of gongs come Sunday night. The movie's unnerving effectiveness revolves around a performance of jagged intensity from Joaquin Phoenix, a musical score tightly woven into the narrative - and its use of a seedy, grimy incarnation of New York (with a little help from its across-the-river New Jersey sidekick Newark) to create the fictional but frequently imagined Gotham City.

Location you can visit: The staircase where the damaged Arthur Fleck effectively metamorphoses into the Joker by performing an unsettling dance - a scene so key to the movie that it appears on the poster - is at 1150 Anderson Avenue in The Bronx, while the 9th Avenue Subway Station in Brooklyn also appears on camera. The closing riot was shot across the state line, at the junction of Market Street and Washington Street, in Newark.

Take a break: A seven-night (room-only) stay at the three-star Nyma New York Hotel (in Midtown Manhattan), flying from Gatwick on March 28, costs from £887 per person through British Airways Holidays (0344 493 0787; ba.com/holidays).

The Irishman has a stellar cast Credit: Netflix

The Irishman

Categories: Best Picture, Actor In A Supporting Role (x2), Cinematography, Costume Design, Director, Film Editing, Production Design, Visual Effects, Adapted Screenplay

With a cast-list packed with of-the-ages talent (Robert De Niro, Al Pacino, Joe Pesci - the latter two both being nominated in the Best Supporting Actor bracket), and Martin Scorcese in the director's chair, The Irishman's 10 appearances on this year's Oscars shortlist might be deemed as inevitable as rain in January or sunshine in July. But the movie is more than just another drawled-dialogue mob retread, pinning its meaty narrative - all three-and-a-half hours of it - to the events surrounding the disappearance (and almost certain murder) of the US trade union leader Jimmy Hoffa, in the summer of 1975.

Location you can visit: Although the events it covers are largely set in Ohio and Pennsylvania, The Irishman - as with Joker - hitches itself to the east coast, the camera peering at New York and New Jersey through a gauze of cigarette smoke and urban disquiet. In a blow to location aficionados, the Clinton Diner in Queens, which pops up on screen - and was better known as "The Goodfellas Diner" after its appearance in the 1990 Scorcese movie of the same name - burned down a little after production had finished, in June 2018. But you can step into St Matthias's (saintmatthiaschurch.com), a Roman Catholic church (also in Queens), which appears in flashback for the film's baptism scene, while St John the Baptist (sjbyonkers.org), slightly up-state in Yonkers, takes a quick spin in the spotlight as the real-life setting for the Bufalino family wedding.

Take a break: See "Joker".

1917 was purportedly filmed as one continuous take Credit: Â© 2019 Universal Pictures and Storyteller Distribution Co., LLC. All Rights Reserved. /Francois Duhamel

1917

Categories: Best Picture, Cinematography, Director, Makeup, Original Score, Production Design, Sound Editing, Sound Mixing, Visual Effects, Original Screenplay

Sam Mendes's much-praised deep-dive into the bloodloss and tragedy of the First World War delves into the fertile (at least, in cinematic terms) terrain of the Western Front - and was, according to repute, filmed as one continuous take, stretched across two hours of action. On screen, it looks at the British response to Operation Alberich - the German withdrawal to a more fortified position, deliberately feinted as a retreat - in the February and March of 1917. In reality, the camera gazes not at northern France, but at a range of suitably windswept locations in Wiltshire - including Salisbury Plain.

Location you can visit: As well as Wiltshire, the movie makes use of Low Force, an 18ft (5.5m) waterfall where the River Tees splashes seaward in County Durham - specifically in the midst of the North Pennines Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (northpennines.org.uk). It appears in the film as a rushing torrent, leapt into by Lance Corporal William Schofield (George MacKay) as he tries to flee German troops. In reality, the cascade is a popular place for kayakers seeking weekend thrills - many of whom had to be warned in advance that the prosthetic bodies floating in the currents were nothing to be concerned about, as the cameras rolled during the July of last year.

Take a break: The nearby High Force Hotel (01833 660207; raby.co.uk/high-force/hotel) offers double rooms from £113 per night, including breakfast.

Brad Pitt plays an ageing stuntman in Tarantino's latest Credit: Sony Pictures/Andrew Cooper

Once Upon A Time In Hollywood

Categories: Best Picture, Actor In A Leading Role, Actor In A Supporting Role, Cinematography, Costume Design, Director, Production Design, Sound Editing, Sound Mixing, Original Screenplay

Quentin Tarantino's latest magnum opus (just short of three hours, but brevity was never his strong-point) is as much a love-letter to Los Angeles and a halcyon time in the film industry's past as it is a dark tale pinned to the Manson Family murders, which shook the city over two evenings in the August of 1969. Leonardo DiCaprio, Brad Pitt and Margot Robbie (all of whom are nominated for individual acting Oscars this year, although Robbie's hat-tip is for her role as a news anchor in Bombshell) all shine on screen - gemstones gleaming in the golden summer light in which Tarantino bathes the narrative. Diners, drive-ins and cinemas - all Tarantino signatures - flash up repeatedly, as the story weds itself to California's biggest city at the tail-end of the hippy decade.

Location you can visit: Tarantino buffs should go straight to the Fox Bruin Theater (regencymovies.com) - the grand old dame of a cinema in Westwood, opened in 1937, where Sharon Tate (played by Robbie) goes to watch herself on screen in (1968's) The Wrecking Crew (in a case of life imitating art, if you make a pilgrimage there in the next couple of weeks, you will find that it is showing Birds Of Prey, starring... Margot Robbie). They might also head for the Melody Ranch (melodyranchstudio.com) - the spittoon-and-sawdust studio, some 30 miles north of downtown Los Angeles in Newhall, that was founded in 1953, specifically as a place to make westerns. When DiCaprio's faded star Rick Dalton goes there to shoot a new TV series, he is walking in long-established cultural footsteps. Visitors can do so too - by taking a tour ($16/£12).

Take a break: See "Ford v Ferrari".

The Two Popes brings out the best in Jonathan Pryce (left) and Anthony Hopkins Credit: Peter Mountain

The Two Popes

Categories: Actor In A Leading Role, Actor In A Supporting Role, Adapted Screenplay

Brazilian director Fernando Meirelles took the potentially dry topic of imagined conversations between Pope Benedict XVI and his destined successor in the Vatican, Pope Francis - as the former contemplated the unprecedented step of resigning from the role, in 2012 - and turned it into a substantial musing on issues such as faith and forgiveness. He was helped by having two acting heavyweights on the cast-list - Anthony Hopkins as Benedict, Jonathan Pryce as Francis. While many of the great ecclesiastical locations featured on screen crop up as a result of technological wizardry - St. Peter's Square was re-created by CGI sleight of hand; a full-size reproduction of the Sistine Chapel was crafted at the Cinecittà studios in Rome - the picture is peppered with real-life places which lend an extra credibility to the introspective subject matter.

Location you can visit: A suitable grandeur was supplied by the Royal Palace of Caserta - not a papal retreat, but a former residence of the Kings of Naples, crafted as a baroque and neoclassical fantasy in the late 18th century. Easily reached from the city in question (it lies about 20 miles to the north), visitors can stroll through its many ornate chambers and gorgeous grounds (reggiadicaserta.beniculturali.it; €14). Back in the Italian capital, Cinecittà - where the likes of Ben-Hur, La Dolce Vita, Cleopatra and Roman Holiday were partially crafted - is also open to the public (cinecittasimostra.it; €15).

Take a break: Citalia (01293 831172; citalia.com) dispenses an 11-day "Rome and Amalfi Coast" tour which offers ample time to explore both cities (as well as the likes of Positano, Pompeii and Herculaneum). From £1,599 per person (flights included).