China is equipped with 5,000 years of culture and history, making it one of the most popular destinations for travellers in the world. Its welcoming culture makes it very easy for international students to settle down for a long term stay.

The core component of a Chinese PhD programme is similar that of the UK and other countries. You will research in detail a novel topic in your field with the support of your chosen supervisor. Upon completion you will submit a thesis detailing your significant findings.

Programme length

The majority of Chinese doctoral programmes give three or four years for research if you are registered full-time. Part-time opportunities for PhD students are available, however these aren’t applicable to international students. This is because the X1-Visa is only valid for five years.

Some institutions will give the thesis defence completion a five-year time frame, with others requiring it to be completed in four.

The full-time academic year consists of two semesters: spring (March-mid July) and fall (mid-September-January). A number of institutions will offer international students the opportunity to defer their start date to the end of September, complying with the traditional UK term dates.

Assessment and examination

The content of PhD degrees in China may vary depending upon the institution and chosen subject-area. However, many programmes include more formal teaching and assessment than is common in countries like the UK.

As a PhD student you may be required to complete a programme of training and study during the first two or three years of a research degree, adhering to the teaching plan set by your supervisor. This will include classroom lectures and examinations on the courses must be passed to complete your doctorate degree.

Alongside this you will have to complete your research project. A full doctoral thesis must be written on the research. Your will have to defend your thesis in an oral examination. (graduation defence) in front of a panel of experts within the research topic's field. (This is slightly different to the more private viva format in countries like the UK).