Scotland’s biggest Chinese New Year festival will be held in Perth next weekend when a crowd of thousands usher in the Year of the Rat in the Fair City.

More than 11,000 people flocked from across the country to the the two-day festival last year, with the celebrations the best-attended event of Perth’s Riverside Lights Festival.

Chinese New Year begins on Saturday but organisers are holding the Perth event on the weekend of February 1 so it does not coincide with the Burns Night celebrations – a crossover that occurs once every 76 years.

The festivities will begin with the blessing of the Chinese Dragon by the new Chinese Consul General, Ma Qiang and Provost Dennis Melloy.

A parade will then set off from 2 High Street at around 4.30pm fronted by the 10-man dragon, before a host of activities take place across two days at the Norie Miller Walk on the banks of the River Tay.

Andy Chan, chairman of the Perth Chinese Association, believes other Chinese New Year festivals are looking to Perth because of its success.

He said: “It’s great to work with Perth and Kinross Council who support our event.

“Over the years we have been able to to see the diverse communities of Perth, and from all over Scotland, come and celebrate the event. The numbers tell the story.

© DC Thomson

“We’ve got a great relationship with Perth and Kinross Council and PKAVS and also the Confederation of Chinese Associations in Scotland whose support and guidance and help is invaluable.

“The festival doesn’t just belong in China and Hong Kong, it is celebrated all over the world and is one of the biggest (festivals) we have in Perth.”

The occasion will also mark the first visit to Perth for Ma Qiang, and the Deputy Chinese Consul General.

The Chinese New Year marks leaving the Year of the Pig and entering the Year of the Rat.

The Rat is the first of all Chinese zodiac animals and according to myth, the Jade Emperor said the order would be decided by when the animals arrived at his party.

The Rat tricked the Ox into giving him a ride and just as they arrived at the finish line, the Rat jumped down and landed ahead of the Ox to become the first.