This story is brought to you by Mercedes-Benz Malaysia.

With Chinese New Year just around the corner, Mercedes-Benz Malaysia sought something a little different with their seasonal marketing to celebrate the festive occasion.

As part of their 'World of CNY' campaign, Mercedes-Benz released a commercial depicting the different ways people celebrate Chinese New Year across the world

The video itself seems like it was fully animated from start to finish. But the truth is quite the contrary. Every subject, excluding the shiny red Mercedes-Benz, originated from a paper cutout, using the ancient tradition of Chinese paper cutting. Every piece was meticulously handcrafted by a team of dedicated and highly-skilled artisans.

Check out the video in its entirety below:

Dating all the way back to the 6th century, paper-cutting was a common craft, with intricate designs often being used to decorate gates and windows during festive seasons.

What we don't see at first glance is the amount of layers that go into each subject. Ranging anywhere from 10 to 60 layers, the process can be extremely time-consuming. It goes without saying that patience and precision are key.

Using the power of animation, the assembled cutouts were brought to life, coming together to create a sense of depth and emotion

via GIPHY

With every layer being crafted by hand, the process is naturally slow. Each line has to be precise, fitting on top or below the next layer as intended. For the commercial itself, once the subjects were completed, all that's left was to put them in position!

via GIPHY

The amount of cutouts used? X,XXX. Yep. Blows my mind too.

The 'World of CNY' commercial was a result of a tremendous amount of labor

Check out this behind-the-scenes look:

According to the artisans that crafted the cutouts, they made the choice to go with the paper cutting concept because they felt it was truly representative of Chinese art as a whole, due to its complex, delicate nature.

via GIPHY

You can create your own paper cutouts too, with a little help from some downloadable templates

1. How to make a blossom

2. How to make a rat

3. How to make a lantern

Enter the World of CNY with Mercedes-Benz

Be ready for anything in the Year of the Rat. With attractive offers like 0.88% financing, four free maintenance services, and complimentary comprehensive motoring insurance, you're all set for Chinese New Year!

Cover image sourced from Mercedes-Benz Malaysia/YouTube.