I booked a flight to San Diego for a week to look at apartments, neighborhoods, and jobs. I didn’t expect that I would learn how to pollinate flowers like a bat, do an at-home parasite test using only water and a role of tape, train parrots, or breed chickens for kindness. And yet all of these things happened because I unknowingly picked an Airbnb in Ocean Beach (OB), San Diego’s artist and hippie enclave, with the perfect local host.

Waking up my first morning, I wandered around Ocean Beach, trying to get my bearings in a part of San Diego that was totally unlike UCSD, where I had previously worked. I followed the trail of cars and wet-suited surfers and perched on a sand dune to watch them skim across the waves. I passed by streets with mystery machine-like vans, hippie boutiques, and homeless voices whispering in the alleys. As I returned home, I met my host, Amy (name changed), who had a newly broken clavicle after being hit by a car shortly before my arrival. Despite the extreme pain she was in, or maybe thanks to painkillers, she laughed and welcomed me in perfect OB-style: “You’re welcome to any of the weed on the table or beer in the fridge,” she said, the way an East Coast host might offer cookies and coffee. “The homeless people are pretty harmless. There’s a guy who just yells, ‘Raaachel! Raaaa-cheeel!’ and then there’s Burrito, who’s a nice guy. If there’s anything you don’t need, just throw it in the Magical Alley out back. I’ve put plant cuttings, old Tupperware, you name it, out there, and last time I needed a hose, I went to the alley and- Bam!- there was a hose!”

Give Generously, Exclude Generously

You will have begun to gather with purpose when you learn to exclude with purpose. When you learn to close doors. -Parker, Priya (The Art of Gathering)

Not only did Amy offer me weed and beer, but over the course of my stay, she offered me a space heater, two dresses, a swimsuit, a zoo pass, her ID to go with the zoo pass, her bike, her books, and her car keys. She seemed to always be conscious of what she needed, what she didn’t need anymore, and what might help someone else. As she mentioned in passing, “I saw some people on the street who looked like they were new to being homeless, so I offered them an old backpack and containers and the guy came back later and fixed my bike…when I have extra plant cuttings, I offer them around and now a bunch of people in the neighborhood are growing fruit from the same plant. Why waste it?”

I had seen generosity before, but Amy turned it into an art form. Whatever she got- be it too much ripe passion fruit or a cute dress she knew she wouldn’t wear- she turned into a proactive gift. My favorite part of it was that she didn’t give to a thrift shop or an anonymous charity, but directly to neighbors or the Magical Alley. And like a Gabriel García Márquez novel, she invested the alley with a certain miraculous and wonderful quality which it always lived up to.

The one group this generosity did not extend to was outsiders. Amy told me on the third morning, “If you want to live in OB, let me know. Most housing options aren’t listed publicly because people want to keep the culture as it is. It’s the last real surf town and home for artists on the edge of Pacific Beach. It’s just sketchy enough to keep some people out, but the community fights to protect it, because they love it and want to keep it this way.”

Hippie town though it is, OB doesn’t promote “radical inclusion” the way a festival like Burning Man does. On the contrary, inhabitants practice generous exclusion, measuring outsiders against its standards and maintaining internal networks to keep the spirit of mutual support alive. For the first time, I understood that Amy’s generosity was not based on blind faith in human goodness, but in the social contract of a community. It was the continuous open exchange and good faith between neighbors that created a culture worth protecting.

Appreciate that no one knows what they’re doing

Late one evening in her kitchen, Amy and I bonded over a common epiphany that hit each of us- and many of our friends- in our mid-20’s: No one knows what they’re doing! All the people wearing suits are making it up as they go along! Whether that realization makes you angry, panicked, or excited generally determines whether you are headed for a panic attack or a more liberated life. And Amy clearly embraced it. One day as she showed me the fruit trees in front of her house, she commented, “Someone gave me this tree and at first I was annoyed when it didn’t flower because I thought she gave me a stupid, freeloading tree. Then, I read that it’s pollinated by a bat that doesn’t live around here, so I came out in the middle of the night and began aggressively pollinating it with my paintbrush, as bat-like as possible.” She grinned and waved an invisible paintbrush in front of one of the flowers. And it must have worked, because the tree was covered with fruit.

Whenever I asked Amy how she learned so many unusual skills, the answer was almost always either “the internet” or “trial-and-error.” Though she had been a researcher, an animal trainer, a co-owner of her ex-husband’s successful business, and an artist, she didn’t put herself in any boxes. When I asked her at what point she had become an artist, she paused and answered, “It’s just something I’ve always done. When I was little, my Mom put paper on the walls that I would just scribble on. I still haven’t learned how to use an easel.” That statement was a mini-revelation to me. As someone who wanted to be a musician growing up and always felt disappointment about not “making it,” the simplicity and unexpectedness of Amy’s attitude made me realize that the idea of “making it” existed only in my own mind and not in reality.

Amy approached her life overall with the same equanimity. When we held a conversation, she went from stories of getting chronically ill in China to riding horses in Mongolia to working in a laboratory for peanuts. She laughed about each experience because it was either wonderful or tragically funny in retrospect. She didn’t try to create any overarching story out of it all to boost her ego or play the victim; she treated her life like a work of art that shouldn’t be judged while it’s still in progress.

Become a fiscally responsible Bohemian

There are many people who master the corporate world and 9-to-5 jobs and there are others who learn how to get by as bohemians or even homeless, in each case learning to use community and available resources to structure their lives. But there are very few who are able to enjoy the best of both worlds.

I came home one day as Amy opened her hospital bills and the first thing I heard was, “…twenty thousand dollars??” Though she had learned how to do her own bacterial gram stain at home, conduct an ad hoc parasite test, and assemble her own collection of veterinary medications, the American medical system had still managed to screw her over. “I hate it,” she said one night, “but I don’t want to give up my perfect credit score.” In the bitterest irony, two systems that should give Americans a sense of security- access to health care and credit- were the greatest stresses for Amy (and most middle class Americans).

Unlike anyone I’ve ever met, Amy used the tools available to her to create a life with both security and freedom. She did it by maintaining relationships with everyone she came across- neighbors, Airbnb guests, her ER doctors- and finding ways to create mutually beneficial relationships with them. As her Airbnb guest, I brought her some income, I did the dishes and helped out when I could, and when she gifted me a handful of postcards made from her paintings, I became a walking advertisement for her art. In short, she drew no distinction between networking and human relationships, work and play.

Conclusion

Despite everything else I set out to accomplish on my trip, meeting Amy was the greatest gift. It was a lesson in how unnecessary many of the distinctions that create unhappiness and stress are: professional vs. amateur, poor vs. rich, work vs. play. Though she was in tremendous physical pain during my time there, my permanent memory of Amy is an image of her laughing. Whether it was from recognizing the joy or the sheer disaster of a situation, it didn’t matter, she laughed just the same.