MUMBAI: Great Wall Motors is close to acquiring General Motors ’ manufacturing facility in Maharashtra, as China’s largest SUV maker is finalising plans for its India entry, people in the know said.A formal agreement over the facility at Talegaon in Pune district is likely to be signed by the end of the month, and GM is likely to fetch about $250-300 million from the sale, one of the people said.The Chinese company and GM have already agreed upon the terms over certain disputed liabilities of GM in India. Previously, India’s JSW Group was in talks with GM over the plant as part of its plan to enter the electric vehicle market, but they could not reach an agreement due to this issue.The global chairman of Great Wall Motors, Wei Jianjun, was in India last week and he reviewed the plans before the company announces its official India entry, likely at the upcoming Auto Expo 2020. According to Chinese media reports, the chairman met the Chinese ambassador as part of his India visit.The deal may offer Great Wall a quick entry into India by 2021. Despite its exit from the local market, US carmaker GM has been using the facility for exports. It shipped 50,000-70,000 cars annually in the past couple of years, equal to 10% of the country’s passenger vehicle exports.GM India, in a response to ET, said it “does not comment on speculation”. “Our Talegaon plant continues to manufacture vehicles for export. As we have said previously, we continue to explore options to improve utilisation of the plant. We do not propose to discuss options publicly,” said a spokesperson.An email sent to Great Wall Motors did not elicit any response till press time Sunday. Gaurav Vangaal, the country lead for production forecasting at IHS Markit, said a deal for the plant would be a win-win for both Great Wall and GM, and a relief for vendor companies in Pune. But one needs to see how aggressive are Great Wall Motors plans for India, he added. "Net-net production-wise it is a loss (since GM will stop production).But a new player always enters with optimism and series of products, so that will augur well for the Indian market," he added. Great Wall has firmed up its India plans after the success of another Chinese company, SAIC Motor, whose MG Motor unit started selling an SUV here in last July.Great Wall had already approved a $1.6 million investment in February 2019 to set up the local Indian office, which was to be named India Haval Auto, India Haval or India Haval Auto Sales, based on regulatory clearance. The company has been using India as a tech hub for coding software for EVs and artificial intelligence . It began hiring for the local automotive business in 2018.Another person in the know of the company’s plans said Great Wall was expected to adopt a topdown approach and showcase a C segment SUV at the Auto Expo. “The company is exploring the core SUV segment of the Indian market, right from Rs. 8 lakh to `12 lakh segment to take on the Maruti Suzuki Brezza, Rs. 12 lakh to Rs. 15 lakh SUV to take on the Hyundai Creta and finally Rs. 15-18 lakh SUV to take on the MG Hector and Jeep Compass,” said a third person.The company will be focusing on only petrol, hybrid and electric powertrains and has no plans of entering the diesel SUV segment here. Great Wall has a range of SUVs, right from a Ford EcoSport competitor to a Toyota Land Cruiser rival.