Keuka College officials recently met with education partners in Asia to craft their vision for a coming decade of cooperation and establish new academic programs for students on both sides of the globe.

President Amy Storey traveled to Xiamen, China, with Brad Fuster, provost and vice president for academic affairs, and Mark Petrie, VP for enrollment management and student development, to meet with leadership from its Chinese partner universities.

“It was an excellent opportunity to meet all of the partners and have them meet each other in the spirit of cooperation,” Fuster said. “We discussed topics such as academic rigor, assessment, student satisfaction, experiential learning, the upcoming Middle States Commission on Higher Education reaccreditation and plans for the future.”

The college is putting the finishing touches on a program with a new partner in Vietnam: the University of Economics and Finance in Ho Chi Minh City.

UEF will offer Keuka’s management program, with plans to add finance and human resources management in the future. Students who complete their first three years at UEF have the option of finishing their studies and graduating at Keuka’s home campus.

“The agreement with UEF is not only an exciting new partnership that expands Keuka College’s educational offerings in Vietnam, it’s recognition of our growing reputation in the region,” Storey said.

Storey, Petrie and Joseph Hwang, administrative chancellor of international programs in Asia, were asked to give the plenary presentation at the winter meeting in Sri Lanka of the Association of Southeast Asia Institutes of Higher Learning.

Their presentation, which focused on the increasing globalization of higher education, introduced ASAIHL members to the type of institutional thinking and business model that has led to more than 8,800 overseas students graduating with degrees from Keuka College since the inception of the international programs in 2003.

Petrie said the college is open to additional partnerships, citing the success of the Keuka China and Keuka Vietnam programs, and the potential for growth in international studies overall.

That growth will continue this fall when a new dual-degree program starts at Vietnam National

University in Hanoi. Students completing the program will earn a Bachelor of Science in management from both schools.

Petrie said the focus on international partnerships pays benefits at home as well as abroad.

“One of the charges of the college’s International Education Committee is how do we ‘internationalize’ the Keuka College campus?” said Petrie, who chairs the committee. “One way to do that is by creating global citizens, and to do that you have to have global experiences. Our international partnerships offer the opportunity to study abroad— the more partnerships, the more opportunities students have.”

The college partners with nine southeast Asian colleges and universities: five in China and four in Vietnam. Keuka College was asked to host the 2022 ASAIHL conference at one of its partners’ campuses in China.

“I can’t think of a greater compliment from the educational leaders in southeast Asia,” Storey said. “It’s a recognition of our commitment to providing quality education in the region. We’ve been there a long time and we plan to continue to deliver high-quality U.S. education in Asia for a long time to come.”