Naval chief visits Chinese ship during ‘Sea Guardians 2020’ exercise

The Pakistan Navy is currently hosting the 6th bilateral exercise ‘Sea Guardians 2020’ being conducted between Pakistan and PLA navies in which Chinese flotilla comprising naval platforms and assets along with PLA (Navy) Marines Corps Detachment has been participating.

On the 4th day of the exercise on Thursday, Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Zafar Mahmood Abbasi visited PLA (Navy) flag ship Yinchuan.

According to the Director General Public Relations (Pakistan Navy), upon his arrival on-board PLA (Navy) ship Yinchuan, the naval chief was warmly welcomed by Deputy Commander PLA Southern Theatre Command Vice Admiral Dong Jun.

A smartly turned-out contingent presented a guard of honour to the naval chief and was given a briefing onboard. Thereafter, Admiral Abbasi had a meeting with Deputy Commander PLA Southern Theatre Command Vice Admiral Dong Jun where matters of mutual interest came under discussion.

During the meeting, the naval chief highlighted that the Sea Guardians exercise is a manifestation of the treasured friendship and mutual trust that exists between the two countries and the ongoing exercise will carry forward our relationship to new heights of glory. He further said that the exercise is aimed at not only countering maritime threats together but also solidifying the common resolve of both the navies of ensuring regional peace and security.

He expressed his hope that regular conduct of such exercises would further enhance the cooperation and interoperability between the two navies. Later, the naval interacted with the PLA (Navy) ship’s crew and appreciated their professional competence and morale. Vice Admiral Dong Jun thanked the naval chief for his visit to the ship.

The exercise Sea Guardians is conducted between Pakistan and PLA navies. Exercise Sea Guardians 2020, the sixth in the series, covers a wide spectrum of maritime and naval operations by ships, aerial platforms and marine forces.