INTERVIEW, William Yin, EU Sales Manager, Orico

by Liam McSherry, Wednesday 8 January 2020





[Channel EMEA] [CE What do you want to achieve at DISTREE EMEA 2020? What are your key goals for the event? Will you make any specific company announcements at the event?

[William Yin] [WY] Orico is a 10 year old USB brand and manufacturer of hard drive enclosures and USB hubs. We rank No.1 in the storage field in China and we are actively expanding our business and influence all over the globe.

We obtained the TOP20 cross-border brand in 2019, but our strongest brand influence is in the South East Asia. We want to increase our presence in the EMEA market and improve our brand influence, so we are attending this great show to meet potential channel partners to help us achieve this.

We’re aware that many large distributors attend DISTREE EMEA so it will be helpful for us to meet them, find out what their standards are, which channels they reach, and assess which direction and strategies to adapt for our target markets. We also want to build relationships with the mid-size distributors as well as in-country distributors.

At DISTREE EMEA 2020, we will announce our latest product, the Thunderbolt 3. The multi-function Thunderbolt 3 has an unparalleled transmission data speed of 40Gbps.

ORICO is one of 5 Chinese brands that are officially authorized by Intel but we are the only company that own both the brand and the factory.

[CE] What products/solutions will you be showcasing at DISTREE EMEA 2020? What do you want distributors to know about your portfolio?

[]WY] We have 8 production lines and thousands of SKUS so we will focus on our top sellers and new models including our hard drive enclosure, USB hub, chargers, Thunderbolt 3 and SSD lines.

We are not just a ‘seller’. We want our prospective distribution partners to know that ORICO is a company that dreams and understands the need to be original in a fast changing world and increasingly dynamic markets. Our portfolio is a reflection of our understanding and philosophy. We provide innovative USB transmission and charging solutions with a product portfolio ranging from computer peripherals, mobile peripherals, surge protectors and lifestyle accessories.

[CE] Describe how your channel business has developed in the past 12months? What trends have you seen and what have been the highlights for your business? [WY] Our sales grew rapidly in 2019 with over 30% increase in volume sales. In addition, we launched our unique ‘211’ model (2 weeks research, 1 week production).

[CE] Which geographic areas and/or channels represent the greatest opportunity for growth for your company in EMEA and globally? [WY] We see great potential across Europe so we are really looking forward to meeting potential distribution partners at DISTREE EMEA. We’re also seeing real potential for growth for our brand in the North and South America.

[CE] Why should distributors and retailers focus on your products? What makes your channel proposition better than competitors in the market? [WY] As mentioned earlier, We recently launched our ‘211’ programme, which means 2 weeks of Research & Development, 1 week lead time and 1 pc to order. We put this programme in place as a solution for some challenges our partners faced with order and delivery processes.

We are also developing our own online order system for our distributor partners. It’s a time consuming process to provide the information needed such as stock and minimum order quantity. With the new online system, our partners can easily get what they need. In future, we will connect our MES system to the new system so that every distributor can track their orders. Our motto is Honest, Trust and Respect.

[CE] Do you have a structured channel programme? Do you offer a strong margin propositions to your partners? [WY] In a fast paced market and rapidly changing world, we work hard to adapt our solutions to stay in line with what works for our customers. We also understand the importance of listening to our distributor partners and to tailor our programmes in line with their specialist knowledge and local markets. We build long term, win-win relationships, with our channel partners

[CE] What sorts of support do you offer distributors in terms of marketing, promotions and channel development activities? [WY] We will offer a certain amount of refund of the sales amount for marketing activities, and also encourage collaborative campaigns should our channel partner come to us with a great idea. We of course provide the standard materials expected by partners such as clothes, banners etc. We also support local exhibitions and fairs with our local distributors. We always work together with our distributors using the above business activities to drive sales and brand engagement.

[CE] How quickly is your business growing in the EMEA region? What market trends have you identified that are impacting your business segment? [WY] We have a great EMEA team in place and are already seeing a 20% sales increase this year. We’re well placed to sign up more distribution partners and grow together.

[CE] What else should distributors attending DISTRIEE EMEA 2020 know about your company and your products and/or solutions? [WY] We want distributors to understand our overall strategy, our unique ‘211’ system, our excellent product range. We want to find partners who share the same values represented by Orico.