Sen. Rick Scott has invited a high-profile member of the Hong Kong pro-democracy movement to attend President Trump's State of the Union address.

"Honored to have @nathanlawkc join me at the #SOTU," the Florida Republican tweeted on Monday. "Nathan is an inspiration in the fight for freedom & democracy, & has sent a powerful message to Communist China that the people of #HK won't be silenced."



Honored to have @nathanlawkc join me at the #SOTU. Nathan is an inspiration in the fight for freedom & democracy, & has sent a powerful message to Communist China that the people of #HK won't be silenced.



The US stands with those fighting for freedom.https://t.co/YJJPAjo1KT — Rick Scott (@SenRickScott) February 3, 2020



Nathan Law, 26, is a graduate of Yale University who claims he was "forcefully removed" from his seat as a Hong Kong lawmaker.

"Hong Kong is crucial — it represents the spirit of freedom and democracy in the era of democratic recession," Law said in accepting Scott's invitation. "It gets strong bipartisan support and we are all united."



I am honored to attend 2020 State of the Union address on Tuesday night as the guest of @SenRickScott. Hong Kong is crucial - it represents the spirit of freedom and democracy in the era of democratic recession. It gets strong bipartisan support and we are all united.#SOTU2020 — Nathan Law 羅冠聰 😷 (@nathanlawkc) February 3, 2020



President Trump is expected to give an uplifting message and share his vision for the country moving forward during the annual address before Congress on Tuesday.

Trump has expressed support for protesters in Hong Kong who have been fighting the Chinese government's censorship initiatives and a now-dead extradition bill. He recently announced a long-awaited trade deal with mainland China, an accomplishment he is expected to boast about during the address.



I know President Xi of China very well. He is a great leader who very much has the respect of his people. He is also a good man in a “tough business.” I have ZERO doubt that if President Xi wants to quickly and humanely solve the Hong Kong problem, he can do it. Personal meeting? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 14, 2019



Scott has been one of the strongest supporters in Congress of the pro-democracy movement in Hong Kong.

“The United States will always stand with fighters like Nathan to rise up against injustice and fight for freedom,” Scott said in a statement to the South China Morning Post. “The world must stand together to present a unified front against Communist China’s aggression.”

Law said he'll be looking for Trump to mention the movement he is involved in during his national address.

"The case of Hong Kong continues to remind us how precious freedom is," Law said. "I hope that the president could be vigilant to China’s expansionist aggression and uphold the liberal values in his speech as a form of support to the freedom fighters around the world."