New Delhi:

Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Saturday made a big statement on Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir (PoK) and said that it would belong to India if the government wants. "There is a parliamentary resolution that entire J-K is part of India. If Parliament wants it, then, that area (PoK) also should belong to us. When we get orders to that effect, we'll take appropriate action," he said.

On the need for re-balancing the force on both Pakistan and China border, the Army chief said that "re-balancing is required as there is a feeling that both northern and western borders require equal attention."

He also termed the formation of the post of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) a ‘very big step’ towards the integration of the three forces. Naravane said the Army will do anything to ensure its success. "The formation of the CDS and the creation of a department of military affairs is a very big step towards integration. We on our part will make sure that this is a success," the Army Chief said.

Army Chief on if PoK can be part of India as stated by political leadership: There is a parliamentary resolution that entire J&K is part of India.If Parliament wants it,then,that area(PoK) also should belong to us. When we get orders to that effect, we'll take appropriate action pic.twitter.com/D7f7gJTalD — ANI (@ANI) January 11, 2020

"Integration will also be within the Army and the integrated battle group is just one example of that. But I also want to assure everyone that in this process of integration we will take everyone along. Nobody will be left behind," he said.

The Army chief's remarks come days after Gen Bipin Rawat took over as India's first Chief of Defence Staff with a mandate to bring in convergence in the functioning of the Army, the Navy, and the Indian Air Force and bolster the country's military prowess.

He also asserted that allegiance to Constitution should guide "us in all times". "Justice, liberty, equality, and fraternity as enshrined in Constitution must guide us," he said.“As the army, we swear allegiance to the Constitution of India...Justice, liberty, equality, and fraternity enshrined in the Constitution should guide us," he added.

ALSO READ: Formation Of CDS Very Big Step Towards Integration Among 3 Services: Army Chief Manoj Naravane

Addressing a press conference, General Naravane said the focus of the training will be on preparing the Army for future wars which will be network-centric and complex. "We are prepared to deal with challenges along the northern border," the Army chief said when asked about China enhancing military infrastructure.

"We are initiating rebalancing of preparedness along the northern border, including moving advanced weapon systems," he said. He said the focus will be on integration within the Army and among the three services.

For all the Latest India News, Download News Nation Android and iOS Mobile Apps.