She rose to prominence following her role as Claire in the award-winning Fleabag.

And Sian Clifford looked sensational as she posed for a stylish fashion shoot with online magazine Porter, while talking about her rocky path to stardom.

During the interview the actress, 37, candidly revealed she suffered a breakdown while juggling three jobs before bagging her role on the hit BBC show.

Glam: Sian Clifford looked sensational as she posed for a stylish fashion shoot with online magazine Porter, while talking about her rocky path to stardom

Sian also discussed finding meditation during more trying times and her profound bond with Fleabag lead actress and writer Phoebe Waller-Bridge.

Before finding fame with Fleabag, Sian revealed she took on too much and started a meditation class and began creating her own well being website.

She said:' I had a breakdown, because I had like three jobs: one for the money and two for love. And I gave myself six weeks to create, launch and brand this whole thing.'

Explaining her vision, Sian revealed: 'I wrote the name Still Space at the top of the page and it felt like a gift. The vision was simple: I wanted to destroy the delusion that business and burnout equal success.'

Moving on: During the interview the actress, 37, candidly revealed she suffered a breakdown while juggling three jobs before bagging her role on the hit BBC show

On-screen: Sian pictured with Phoebe as they on-screen characters Fleablag and Claire

'It's not until you find yourself on the floor, and you can't get up, that you deal with it.'

'You are your greatest brand, supporter, ally, lover, all of those things. If you can do that, you can really survive anything.'

Sian went on to reveal that she has used these techniques to be able to cope with her overnight fame following the rip-roaring success of Fleabag.

She said: 'Last year, if I hadn't been in that place, it could have been extremely unsettling and overwhelming, because we never could have anticipated what happened to Fleabag last year.'

Past projects: Before finding fame with Fleabag, Sian revealed she took on too much and started a meditation class and began creating her own well being website

Sian, who has known co-star Phoebe since their drama school days, also touched on her reaction when she first read the script for the programme.

The star said: 'I thought it was the best thing I had ever read. It was just so new and zeitgeisty, something insanely wonderful, fuelled by love, and it didn't matter to me whether it did well or not, because I was so thrilled we were making it.'

She also revealed that she and the James Bond writer have further plans to keep working together as she teased future projects, adding:

'…we want to keep on collaborating, because it is so easy and fluid – the dialogue we have… sometimes we don't need to say anything… it's done with a look. I don't know if I will ever have that with someone else, the implicit trust of thoughts and ideas.'

To see the full interview with Sian Clifford read Porter and/or download the NET-A-PORTER app for iPhone, iPad and Android.