Melbourne suburbs will top a property hit list with cashed-up Chinese buyers flying in for new year celebrations.

The Golden Week holiday, which marks the Chinese New Year, is also a peak househunting period for Chinese-based buyers who use the break to travel abroad.

The CBD, Point Cook, Doncaster, Southbank and Toorak are expected to see an influx of Chinese buyers.

RELATED: Fly-in Chinese buyers snare elite Melbourne homes for Lunar New Year

Foreign buyers: China, US drive decade of ‘unprecedented’ investment





Box Hill vendors to turn $136,500 into almost $2m over 24 years

Last year’s celebration saw one Chinese buyer splash an eye-watering $12 million on three Kew houses in just 24 hours.

International property portal Juwai IQI executive chairman Georg Chmiel said Australia was a top destination for big-spending tourists, who spend on average 12.6 days down under.

“During this Chinese New Year holiday, official forecasts are that more than 7 million Chinese will travel overseas and (it) is a big travel period for visiting friends and family in Australia,” he said.

“Eleven per cent more Chinese are travelling overseas this holiday than the same time last year. Half of the Chinese tourists who come to Australia visit Melbourne, which is about 656,000 per year.”

Mr Chmiel said most of the Chinese buyers would be looking to buy an Australian base, while also maintaining a home in China, rather than an investment property.

Barry Plant Point Cook partner Ray Harb said buyers would be on the hunt for homes near good schools, close to amenities and within existing communities of Chinese residents.

“History will show in Point Cook, when it’s the Chinese New Year interest picks up,” he said.

“Chinese buyers like to buy property at that time as they believe it is good luck.

“Younger buyers will spend up to $700,000 and those looking to upgrade might spend above the $1 million mark.”

Foreign buyers have splurged more than $100 billion on Victorian homes in the past decade, according to the Foreign Investment Review Board. Most are from China and the US.

Victoria has long been the state of choice for foreign homebuyers, accounting for 46 per cent of authorised residential purchases made across the nation in 2018-19.

MORE: Yarra Glen double-decker garage and private pub next level

Coburg touch-ups transform bungalow from dated to delightful

Custom coastal home edges above previous Merricks North record