Gov. Noem, Sen. Rounds attend signing of US-China Trade Deal at White House

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Gov Kristi Noem and U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds joined Pres. Trump at the White House for the signing of “phase one” of a trade agreement between the United States and China.

“The agreement President Trump locked in today is an incredible economic victory for South Dakota producers,” said Noem. “This historic deal opens up new markets and advances opportunities for farmers and ranchers to do what they do best: feed the world.”

After a year of tough weather conditions, and low commodity prices — a Trade Deal with China promises a better future to South Dakota farmers and ranchers.

The agreement signed by President Trump requires structural reforms to China’s economic and trade regime in the areas of: agriculture, financial services, intellectual property, technology transfer, and currency and foreign exchange.

The U.S. and China have struggled to reach an agreement, and this pact is expected to boost exports from U.S. farmers and manufacturers.

Local ranchers are excited to see the effects the deal will have. Eric Jennings, President of the South Dakota Cattleman’s Association, says that the China Trade agreement has incredible opportunities — “Beef has been prohibited from going into Chine for 14 years, I believe it is. But there’s 1.4 billion people in China, so there’s a huge opportunity for marketing there.”

For a struggling industry in South Dakota, the deal could mean billions in additional sales.

South Dakota Rep. Dusty Johnson commented on the deal — “They’ve also promised to purchase $200 billion of American goods (over the next two years) which is a substantial step up on agricultural purchases and those agricultural purchases have already begun. ”

According to Sen. Rounds, under this agreement, China has agreed to purchase at least $40 billion of our agricultural products.

Sen. Rounds says that this will provide some much-needed relief to our farmers and ranchers who have been most affected throughout the trade negotiations. This deal will reestablish markets for them to sell their products.

“We still have more to do to make sure China lives up to its obligations, and phase one is the first step in that process,” said Rounds. “I thank President Trump for his efforts to make sure our farmers, ranchers and manufacturers are getting a fair deal.”