Former Doraville City Councilmember Joseph Geierman took the oath of office on Monday to become the city’s first-ever openly LGBTQ mayor.

Gay IT professional Andy Yeoman (second photo) was also sworn into the city council, joining transgender Councilmember Stephe Koontz to make Doraville one of the most LGBTQ-representative city governments in the state.

Geierman’s (first photo) husband, B.J. Abbott, was by his side as he took the oath of office.

“I’m really excited to be taking the helm in 2020,” Geierman told the crowd at Forest Fleming Arena. “This is an exciting time for Doraville. I’ve said it many, many times that our city is really at a crossroads of greatness. We have all the ingredients of success.”

Geierman pledged to make City Hall more resident-friendly and to hire a full-time city manager.

“We need to do what it takes to enable our city to grow and be competitive in the metro Atlanta region,” he said.

Geierman was elected to the city council in 2017 and gave up his District 2 seat in 2019 to run for mayor. He beat incumbent Mayor Donna Pittman by 30 points in a December runoff.

Geierman is now the fourth openly LGBTQ current mayor in Georgia. He joins Hiawassee Mayor Liz Ordiales, Pine Lake Mayor Melanie Hammet and Canton Mayor Bill Grant, who was sworn in on Jan. 2.

The oath of office was administered by Angela Duncan, a lesbian Gwinnett County Magistrate Court judge and Chamblee Municipal Court judge. Gov. Brian Kemp announced in November that Duncan will fill a newly-created seat on the Gwinnett County Superior Court bench.

Duncan is believed to be the first openly LGBTQ judge that Kemp has appointed. She will be sworn in Thursday at the state capitol.

Yeoman joins Koontz on city council

Yeoman beat Gerald Evans by over 30 points in the November election to take the District 1 seat on the council.

“I look forward to a great four years!” he wrote on Facebook following the ceremony. “Thank you everyone for coming out!”

The Victory Fund and Georgia Equality endorsed him in October.

Yeoman marched in the Atlanta Pride parade that month.