Chinese pharmaceutical and medical equipment distributer, Shenzhen Relin Medicine, has signed a 10-year strategic distribution agreement with Queensland-based Capricornia Contact Lens.

Relin Medicine distributes medicines and medical equipment to over 3,000 hospitals and medical clinics throughout China. The medicines and equipment are used to treat ophthalmology, orthopaedic and otorhinolaryngology issues, and other illnesses such as digestive disorders.

The company also supports work to assist disadvantaged patients regain sight through access to medical consultations and technologies.

‘There are currently no satisfactory solutions to keratoconus at the middle and late stages and to ametropia after keratoplasty in China,’ says a Relin Medicine spokesperson.

‘We had therefore been looking for the right partners across the globe – in Australia, the United States, Japan and Europe – to help resolve these clinical pain points. With the assistance of leading ophthalmic experts in China and colleagues from Austrade, we were connected to Capricornia, a contact lens company with a 35-year history.

‘The Capricornia sclera lens solved the pain points. As Capricornia is also looking to develop in Asia to bring its premium products to China, we gladly reached a consensus on cooperation.’

Capricornia Contact Lens manufactures and distributes prescription contact lens. The firm’s designs include lenses for orthokeratology, irregular corneas and the treatment of keratoconus. Capricornia also manufactures a comprehensive range of custom soft and rigid gas-permeable lenses using state-of-the-art computer-controlled lathes.

‘We are very excited to be collaborating with Relin and their partners,’ says Tony Capitano, Managing Director, Capricornia Contact Lens.

‘There is huge scope for us to make a positive impact in the treatment of eye disorders across China through our advanced processes for lens manufacture and also by combining our research capability. Large diameter scleral lenses are relatively new to China and at Capricornia, we have a long history and huge experience in this specialty lens sector.

‘It is early days and there is much to do, including obtaining relevant regulatory approvals and understanding the China hospital and eye clinic environments,’ adds Capitano. ‘We believe it’s a great first step and important for the future growth and continued internationalisation of Capricornia.’

Relin executives acknowledged the role played by Austrade to assist with communications, advice and leveraging networks important to concluding the deal.