She's a regular at the most glamorous shows during Fashion Month, and Lady Kitty Spencer put on a typically stylish display as she stepped out in Milan today.

The D&G model, 29, looked chic in a black and cream pleated midi-skirt teamed with a colour-coordinated collared shirt.

Lady Kitty arrived at Tod's autumn/winter collection clutching a small leather bag in which she carried a few essentials.

Her shirt featured a ruched cord to cinch in her svelte waist, and she teamed the ensemble with an eye-catching pair of red slip-on mules with a miniature heel.

© Provided by Daily Mail Lady Kitty Spencer, 29, looked chic in a black and cream pleated midi-skirt teamed with a colour-coordinated collared shirt as she arrived at Tod's show at Milan Fashion Week on Friday

Princess Diana's niece, the eldest child of the 9th Earl Spencer, wore her blonde tresses in flowing curls and accessorised with an elegant pair of diamond earrings.

She wore a neutral palette of makeup to accentuate her features and pulled her locks back behind her ears.

Tod's is an Italian company that create luxury shoes and other leather items.

The outing comes after it emerged Lady Kitty was using her royal connection to endorse Satine Jersey milk in China.

< PREVIOUS SLIDE SLIDE 1 of 3 NEXT SLIDE > Her shirt featured a ruched pull cord to cinch in her svelte waist and she teamed the ensemble with an eye-catching pair of red slip-on mules with a miniature heel © Provided by Daily Mail

Lady Kitty posed in a stunning emerald dress with a cup of tea for a photoshoot at the British Museum.

The first cousin to Princes William and Harry, told Chinese journalists: ‘The day of the Royal Family usually begins with a cup of milk or a cup of tea.’

Dozens of photographs were taken of Lady Kitty, whose dress was designed with a nod to Far Eastern couture, at the Satine launch event on June 8.

With the grand backdrop of the British Museum’s marble atrium, Lady Kitty sipped tea while a Chinese woman poured milk from a carton – with the title ‘Satine Jersey Milk British Museum Classic Edition’ – into a jug.

A press release issued by the milk company made great play of her royal connections, saying: ‘Kitty Spencer, niece of the late Princess Diana, made an authentic English breakfast tea with Jersey milk and shared the story of Jersey milk and the British Royal Family.’

Lady Kitty, who is not a member of the Royal Family, was quoted as saying: ‘Jersey milk has a close relationship with the British Royal Family.

© Provided by Daily Mail The outing comes after it emerged Lady Kitty was using her royal connection to endorse Satine Jersey milk in China (pictured during a photo call at the British Museum)

'At Buckingham Palace, the official residence of the Queen in London, the Queen’s day begins with drinking a cup of tea.

‘Jersey milk has been enjoyed by the British Royal Family for many years. Jersey milk is considered to be the finest and most special from the United Kingdom.’

The launch event led to gushing articles in the Chinese media about Satine milk and ‘British noble member’ Lady Kitty.

The British Museum received a fee for hosting the event, which it said was ‘commercially sensitive’.

A spokesman said: ‘The British Museum started its brand licensing programme back in 2016 and has an international programme, with select licensee partners in China, the UK, Europe and North America.

‘The press release details the collaboration on this particular product and the role of the British Museum, whereby the design of the packaging for a specific product was inspired by objects in the British Museum’s collection.’

This is a reference to the milk carton that is emblazoned with ‘Satine – The British Museum’ and features a sketch based on an 1846 lithograph of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert with their children, titled The Royal Children in the Nursery.

There was no comment from Lady Kitty’s agent or from Buckingham Palace at the time.