President Xi Jinping spoke with King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia on the phone on the evening of 6 February.

President Xi expressed great appreciation to King Salman and the Saudi side for voicing on multiple occasions firm support to China at a critical moment in China's fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak. This expression of solidarity speaks volumes about the true friendship and the strength of the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries. He reaffirmed China's commitment to work with Saudi Arabia with mutual support for each other's core interests and major concerns and push for still bigger progress in bilateral ties.

President Xi briefed the Saudi king on the concerted, nationwide efforts being made to contain the outbreak. He described it as an all-out people's war on the epidemic with the most thorough and rigorous control measures. Such efforts are producing results. Being good at mobilizing resources and equipped with rich experience in handling public health emergencies, China has the confidence and capability to win the battle. The robust measures are taken not only for the health of China's own people but also as a great contribution to global public safety. We encourage other countries to stay informed of and act on WHO's advice on travel and health. China places great importance on the health and safety of Saudi and other foreign nationals in China, and will continue to take effective measures to ensure their working and living conditions. China will work with Saudi Arabia and other countries in the spirit of openness and transparency to respond collectively and effectively to the epidemic and maintain public health security in the region and beyond.

On behalf of the government and people of Saudi Arabia, King Salman expressed firm support for China's ongoing fight against the epidemic and offered sympathies to the friendly Chinese people for their losses. Saudi Arabia highly appreciates the strong measures taken by the Chinese government in response to the outbreak, and believes that China will win this battle. Saudi Arabia highly values its comprehensive strategic partnership with China and will stand firmly with China under all circumstances. At this difficult time for China, Saudi Arabia is ready to do all it can to support and help China in fighting the outbreak. Saudi Arabia will work with China to strengthen the friendship and cooperation between the two countries.