Franklin Township-based-CompoSecure LLC, a manufacturer of luxury credit cards, on Wednesday said it appointed Greg Maes chief operating officer to further support the company’s long-term growth strategy.

Maes brings 25 years of experience with some of the largest global card manufacturers.

“Our business has substantially increased in volume and complexity, and Greg enhances our already strong management structure for the challenges ahead,” said Jon Wilk, chief executive officer of CompoSecure. “Greg has spent half of his career outside the U.S. and built a strong network of customers and partners, which will strengthen our international expansion. He is also committed to our company culture of inclusive teamwork while ensuring that we achieve and surpass sales, profitability, and operational goals.”

Reporting directly to Wilk, Maes will be responsible for providing day-to-day leadership and management of all company manufacturing, operations, engineering, quality and maintenance. He will partner with the CompoSecure senior leadership team in setting and driving the organizational vision, operational strategy and hiring needs for the company.

Most recently, Maes was the global chief operating officer for ABCorp. He also held operational positions for IDEMIA in Asia Pacific (Hong Kong) and Gemplus (Gemalto, now part of Thales) in Singapore and China. Maes was involved in smart card deployment (SIM cards, EMV, Dual Interface or Government ID cards) in factories, technology transfers between sites, and set up of new factories and personalization centers.

Maes has a Chemistry and Physics degree from the Graduate School of Chemistry and Physics of Bordeaux, France.

Just 10 days ago it was reported that the Somerset-based company, which is backed by LLR Partners of Philadelphia, was conducting chats with potential buyers and seeking bids of $1.5 billion.

CompoSecure said it does not comment on speculation.

Editor’s Note: The article was updated on Jan. 16, stating the company declined to comment.