Harare Bureau

CHINA will provide fresh funding for new infrastructure projects that are expected to jerk the economy and create new jobs, following last week’s visit by the Asian Giant’s top diplomat and Foreign Affairs Minister Wang Yi.

The new projects are the long-awaited construction of Kunzvi Dam, Harare-Chirundu highway, refurbishment of Sable Chemicals fertiliser plant, rehabilitation of Harare’s water system, a power transmission arrangement and export of citrus to China.

China is expected to provide concessionary loans for Kunzvi Dam, the Harare-Chirundu Highway and the Sable Chemicals Fertiliser Plant. On the citrus exports, the Asian giant will facilitate the access of markets and removal of impediments to trade while financial facilities will be provided for Harare’s water treatment plant at Morton Jaffrey. Under the power transmission deal, an arrangement has been made to ensure adequate supply of electricity to the New Parliament Building in Mt Hampden to guarantee smooth development of the new city.

Funding for all the projects will be provided under the scope of Chinese signature foreign policy programme, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) as well as the Forum for China Africa Cooperation (FOCAC).

In an interview with our Harare Bureau, China’s chief envoy to Zimbabwe, Ambassador Guo Shaochun said following high-level talks that Minister Wang held with President Emmerson Mnangagwa, acting President General Constantino Chiwenga and Foreign Affairs and International Trade Minister Dr Sibusiso Moyo, Harare and Beijing agreed to set up teams from both countries to immediately start working on the projects.

“For the six new projects, the two sides will further discuss on implementation. Practical co-operation is a major part of relations. China will always do its best to support Zimbabwe. The win-win principle is what guides co-operation between China and Zimbabwe. We are going to further discuss the new projects and conduct more research on the sustainability and feasibility of the projects.

“Also, we need to arrange how we are going to finance the loans. It’s a process and we have to handle it in a very responsible, but active way. I am confident that the two will come up with firm strategies for these new projects.”

Ambassador Guo said in addition to the new ventures, the two countries had also knuckled down on challenges affecting existing projects such as the Hwange Thermal Power Station Unit 7 and 8 construction and refurbishment of Robert Mugabe International Airport, among other deals.

He said China made a commitment to continue funding the projects and ensure completion according to set timeframes.

“The major projects that are being implemented are advancing well and China promised to complete the projects on time and with high quality. Even if we have some challenges we agreed that we should be able to work together,” said Ambassador Guo.

He said China had a “special interest” with Zimbabwe, while adding that the visit was “successful.”

“The two sides exchanged views on the interests we are concerned with. The purpose is to push forward the political relations and practical co-operation and increase people to people exchanges,” he said.

“I can say the visit was very successful. China and Zimbabwe enjoy a time honoured friendship. In 2020 we will work together to achieve more in our co-operation and achieve more outcomes for our two countries and our peoples.”

“We are very pleased that Zimbabwe is one of the first stops of the visit,” said Ambassador Guo after Minister Wang also toured four other African countries in line with China’s tradition of making Africa its first diplomatic destination of the year.

Speaking after talks with Dr Moyo last week, Minister Wang said Zimbabwe had become an important partner for China under the BRI.

He said this year’s 40th anniversary celebrations, for the establishment of diplomatic relations, engenders the two countries to heighten all forms of co-operation.

“Over the past 40 years, the two countries have always understood each other, respected each other, supported each other and trusted each other, becoming an example of China-Africa co-operation and South-South co-operation,” he said during the visit.

“China is pleased to see that China and Zimbabwe relations have been upgraded to comprehensive strategic co-operative partnership, and Zimbabwe has become an important partner of co-building the “Belt and Road Initiative”.

In his remarks at the end of the visit, Minister Wang said China was sincere in its partnership with Africa. “In terms of infrastructure, China has built more than 6 000 kilometres of railways and roads respectively in Africa, as well as nearly 20 ports and more than 80 large power plants,” he said.