On January 21, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi met in Beijing with Co-Chairs of the Intergovernmental Negotiations on United Nations (UN) Security Council reform, Lana Zaki Nusseibeh, Permanent Representative of the United Arab Emirates to the UN, and Joanna Wronecka, Permanent Representative of Poland to the UN.

Wang Yi said that this year marks the 75th anniversary of the founding of the UN, so we should take this as an opportunity to review the original aspiration and mission of the establishment of the UN. It has been proved that the UN mechanism is essential and still valid. The international system with the UN as its core must be safeguarded. Security Council reform should be committed to strengthening the authority and effectiveness of the Security Council, so that the Security Council can truly assume the primary responsibility of safeguarding international peace and security.

Wang Yi said that the Security Council reform should increase the representation of developing countries and small and medium-sized countries, because all countries, big or small, are equal members of the international community. The Security Council should not become a club of big and rich countries, but should allow developing countries and small and medium-sized countries, which make up the majority of the member States of the UN, to play their due role in the process of the Security Council. This is consistent with the purposes and principles of the the United Nations Charter, with the trend of democratization of international relations and with the correct direction of the international governance reform. The reform should adhere to the broad democratic consultation to gradually accumulate consensus. It should also reflect the leadership of member States, so that it can move forward along the right direction.

Nusseibeh and Wronecka appreciated China's efforts to safeguard multilateralism and strengthen the role of the UN. They said that China has made remarkable achievements in economic development and poverty alleviation, and has become the anchor of world stability and development. It is hoped that China will continue to play a constructive role in safeguarding the UN system. The reform of the Security Council is complex and sensitive, so it should continue to be led by the member states to seek a broader consensus. We would like to work with the member states, including China to strengthen communication and coordination, so that the Security Council reform process can move forward in a fair, transparent, inclusive and gradual manner.