Bilateral relations between Nigeria and China are impacting positively on Nigeria’s development objectives, Vice President of China General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria, (CGCCN), Teng Li, has affirmed.

Speaking at the Chinese spring festival, in Abuja at the weekend, he said such bilateral relationship was a deliberate attempt to foster development for the benefit of both countries.

He cited the implementation of rail and road projects, across the country, and the presence of Chinese companies attracted to Nigeria.

Li explained that the Chinese spring festival, which commemorates the Chinese New Year, was a veritable means of deepening the cultural exchanges and friendship between China and Nigeria.

He added: “In recent years, with the continuous strengthening of relationship and friendship between China and Nigeria, more and more Chinese company and people have come to Nigeria to participate in the infrastructural development of the country.”

The event which was put together by the China General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria was held at the NAF conference centre and attracted many Chinese nationals, companies and their Nigerian counterpart.

Li noted that the spring festival represents the most solemn traditional festival in China, which is also called the Chinese New year.

“Today all of us gather here not only to celebrate this important festival but also to establish a platform to deepen the cultural exchanges and friendship between China and Nigeria, this is also the mission and responsibility of China General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria,” he stated.

He assured that the CGCCN would continue to foster infrastructural development in Nigeria by encouraging investment and coordination of economic and trade exchanges.

According to him, in the New Year, the CGCCN would continue to grow Nigeria and make a greater contribution in moving Nigeria forward.

“We are committed to developing China-Nigeria economic and trade relations and the comprehensive and in-depth development of China Nigeria strategic partnership,” he said.

Also speaking, the Special guest of honour at the occasion and President of the Abuja Chamber of Commerce, Prince Kayode Adetokunbo SAN, lauded the CGCCN for putting the event together which he said was a way of bridging the cultural gap between both countries.

He praised the efforts of the Chamber noting that the Abuja Chamber of Commerce would continue to work towards forging a better relationship with Chinese companies in the coming year, which he said would be full of vitality since it was the year of the “Rat” in accordance with the Chinese calendar.