KARACHI: The opening ceremony of the sixth bilateral “Exercise Sea Guardians 2020” between Pakistan Navy and China’s People’s Liberation Army (Navy) was held at the Pakistan Navy Dockyard here on Monday, said a statement issued by the navy’s media wing.

The Deputy Commander of Southern Theatre Command PLA (Navy) Vice Admiral Dong Jun graced the occasion as the chief guest. Commander Pakistan Fleet Vice Admiral Asif Khaliq was also present on the occasion.

Vice Adm Khaliq welcomed the Chinese officers and personnel, alluding to the evergreen, warm and eternally cordial relations between the two countries in general and navies in particular.

While underscoring the importance of immaculate and sound planning during the exercise, the vice admiral hoped that the exercise will prove to be another stepping stone in augmenting interoperability and strategic cooperation betwe­en the navies of both countries.

Earlier Vice Adm Dong thanked Pakistan Navy for hosting the bilateral exercise and hoped to have a mutually benefiting and professionally rewarding experience from the joint exercise.

Chinese Flotilla comprising naval platforms/assets along with PLA (Navy) Marines Corps Detachment arrived in Karachi to participate in the exercise.

During the exercise, frontline destroyers/frigates along with air and other assets and Marines/Special Forces from Pakistan Navy and PLA (Navy) will carry out advance level joint drills and naval manoeuvre in the North Arabian Sea.

In addition, during the harbour phase, various professional and social activities will also be conducted. The activities of the exercise will also be witnessed by senior officials from both the navies.

“Exercise Sea Guardians 2020” is aimed at sharing professional experiences on contemporary and non-traditional threats at sea, improving security cooperation and promoting safe and sustainable maritime environment in the region.

The exercise is a reflection of strong bilateral military cooperation between Pakistan Navy and Chinese Navy and will foster greater bilateral cooperation between the two navies.

The ceremony was attended by a large number of officials from the navies of both countries.

Published in Dawn, January 7th, 2020