KOTA KINABALU: Unity among the Sabah coalition government’s component members has been determined to be the key for the ruling state government’s survival said Sabah Pakatan Harapan (PH) chief Datuk Christina Liew.

The Sabah PKR chief said she agreed with the party’s advisory council chairman Datuk Seri Dr Wan Azizah Wan Ismail’s remarks that PH would learn from the defeat in the Kimanis by-election and rectify the situation to win the support of the people.

“Unity is important, especially if it is a coalition government. I believe this (defeat) is not something that we cannot overcome.

“If every leader in every party is sincere and moves together, I think we will be alright,” she said, referring to coalition government made of Pakatan Harapan- Parti Warisan Sabah-Upko during Chinese New Year media luncheon and Enchanting Sabah Logo launch here.

As for Sabah Umno chief Datuk Seri Bung Moktar Radin’s statement that Barisan Nasional (BN) would likely to take over the state government in the next general election following BN’s victory in Kimanis, Liew described the Kinabatangan member of parliament as nothing more than a joker.

“He is a funny man. But I enjoy his joke. I will laugh at his joke. He is a joker,” she added.

Meanwhile, Liew, who is also a State Tourism, Culture and Environment minister, added that 2020 would be a challenging and exciting year for the tourism industry.

She said the state would likely to hit its aim of 4.2million tourist arrival for 2019, this however is pending the full annual report.

“We have yet to set our target for this year, but the Ministry would be focusing on diversifying the industry, introducing more tourism products to attract more tourists, especially from the European countries among others.

“There are also companies bringing in more weekly chartered flights from China, especially for Chinese New Year season (in Sabah),”she said.

Liew also added that the ministry was working with the state Health Department to increase preventive measures at the Kota Kinabalu International Airport here in the wake of Wuhan pneumonia outbreak.