WORKING in a restaurant with a more intimate setting at W Kuala Lumpur has given executive Chinese chef Tan Kim Weng the opportunity to focus on innovative dining experiences.

“Yen offers a modern take on traditional Cantonese cuisine in a fine dining setting, ” he said.

Great care is taken in the presentation of the dishes, such as the inclusion of molecular gastronomy, as diners often “eat with their eyes first” and enjoy taking photographs of their meals.

Tan said Yen’s Chinese New Year menu this year was created based on feedback from last year’s, which also marked its first festive menu.



Abalone Yee Sang with Caviar, Gold Flakes, Truffles Oil and The Golden Duck Salted Egg Fish Skin Crunchy Crisps is one of the yee sang options from the Chinese New Year menu. — Photos: LOW BOON TAT/The Star

“Nutritious and healthy are the key elements. People are more health conscious these days, so there is a demand for dishes that are less sweet or salty as well as more vegetarian options, ” said Tan, who has over 30 years’ experience in the culinary line.

He also added yee sang showcasing local fruits such as mango, dragonfruit, jackfruit and melon in the menu.

This year, W Kuala Lumpur is partnering with Singaporean brand The Golden Duck by featuring their gourmet Salted Egg Fish Skin Crunchy Crisps in the yee sang.The Golden Duck Salted Egg Fish Skin Crunchy Crisps are featured in the Norwegian Salmon Fish Yee Sang with Qiandao Lake Angel Beds, Soft Shell Crab Yee Sang with Tempura Crispy Lobster and Abalone Yee Sang with Caviar, Gold Flakes and Truffles Oil. These are also available as takeaways.

Other yee sang options include Healthy Fruits Yee Sang with Assorted Nuts and Premium Jelly Fish Yee Sang with Korean Snow Pear, both drizzled with avocado oil.



The Stewed Money Bag, Sea Cucumber, Sun-Dried Oyster, Sea Moss, Abalone Sauce is a dish filled with symbolic ingredients.

During a media preview of Yen’s festive menu, Tan presented a selection of dishes from the Happy Reunion set menu as well as the Braised Imperial Bird’s Nest, Whole Crab Claw, Minced Prawns Soup from the a la carte menu.

“Personally, I feel bird’s nest is better than shark’s fin for soups as it has better nutritional value and is more easily digested, ” he said, adding that shark’s fin is not on Yen’s menu.

The Crispy Chicken Roll, Hunan Chili Sauce, Assorted Fungus and Steamed Cod Fish, Thousand Island Lake Herbs Pearl, Supreme Soya Sauce dish from the set menu were personal favourites.

“The chicken is prepared as a roll and marinated with salt and spices about half a day ahead. It is pan-fried just before serving, ” said Tan.

“Good cod fish should be fatty and naturally sweet. Besides the flesh, the fish skin and layer just below it are the best parts as they contain collagen which is high in nutritional value.”



Braised Imperial Bird’s Nest, Whole Crab Claw, Minced Prawns Soup from Yen’s a la carte menu.

Sweetened Peach Resin Soup with Tianshan Lotus Seed, Okinawa Red Sugar, Xinjiang Date and Dumpling and Steamed Layer Traditional Ninko with Xishuangbanna Orchid Flower and Gold Ingot are served as desserts in all the set menus.

Dishes available exclusively in the a la carte menu include Braised Premium Assorted Hot Dish (poon choy); Wok-Fried Lobster Meat, Arrowhead, Lettuce Head, Truffles; Wok-Fried Prawn Ball, Crispy Garlic, Dried Chili; Wok-Fried Estuary Grouper, Supreme Chili Sauce, Mushrooms, Bean Curd and Pan-Fried Scallop, Minced Prawn, Superior Garlic Sauce.

The poon choy, which requires a minimum order of four pax, features premium ingredients such as six-head abalone, sea cucumber, fish maw, dried scallop, tiger prawn and dried oyster.

Yen’s Chinese New Year menu is available until Feb 5.

There will be two dinner sessions for the reunion dinner on Jan 24 — at 5.30pm and 8.30pm.



The Steamed Layer Traditional Ninko with Xishuangbanna Orchid Flower and Gold Ingot.

The yee sang is priced from RM118+ to RM248+ for a half portion and from RM228+ to RM488+ for a large portion.

The four set menus are priced at RM188+ per person (Great Prosperity — available for lunch only), RM288+ per person (Happy Reunion) and RM388+ per person (Rich Fortune and Wealth Treasures).

Yen, Level 11, W Kuala Lumpur, 121 Jalan Ampang. Kuala Lumpur. (Tel: 03-2786 8888). Business hours: Noon-2.30pm, 6.30pm-10.30pm, daily. Pork-free.

This is the writer’s personal observation and not an endorsement by StarMetro.