THE Central Bank of Barbados says that bridges can be built between Barbados and China through the Fish and Dragon Festival to create the type of investment necessary for economic growth in Barbados.

That’s according to Sherri Bishop, Senior Communications Officer at the Bank.

Bishop said that the Bank is pleased with the returns from having sponsored the Fish and Dragon festival for five of the six years of its existence.

“We see the collaboration through this festival strengthening the friendship, opening connections, and building bridges as Barbados looks to attract new investment and spur economic growth,” Bishop told a function to launch the Festival.

According to her, “The festival exposes Barbadians to the rich Chinese culture: its food, its art, medicine, language, and people. It also provides a platform for our artistes to perform alongside the best from China.”

In addition, it presents an opportunity for the two countries to come together, exchange ideas, and learn from and about each other.

Bishop said they at the Bank have benefitted from the partnership in a tangible way.

“My colleagues and I have studied Mandarin through the Confucius Institute, which is located at the UWI (University of the West Indies) Cave Hill Campus, and others have attended a training course in China. We are currently exploring more training opportunities in China for our employees,” declared the Senior Communications officer.

The Central Bank of Barbados has partnered with the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in Barbados to host the 6th edition of the Fish and Dragon Festival.

This festival celebrates the Chinese New Year, which this year occurs on Saturday, January 25.

“We now better understand the Chinese people and culture.I encourage all Barbadians to join us at the Garfield Sobers Gymnasium on Saturday, January 18 for the Fish and Dragon Festival, where they will see the Jilin troupe perform along with martial arts displays and performances by local acts including the Tuk Band, the Arch Hall Folk Ensemble.