Source: Xinhua| 2020-01-19 01:33:00|Editor: yan

Video Player Close

ATHENS, Jan. 18 (Xinhua) -- The official launching ceremony of the Sino-Hellenic Investors' Confederation, a new confederation aimed to facilitate Chinese investors in Greece and support the further enhancement of bilateral friendship and cooperation, was held here on Saturday.

The confederation has been founded in order to facilitate Chinese investors' integration into Greek society, as well as to help promote Greek products to China and bilateral collaboration in culture, education, science, tourism and many other sectors, according to the founding members.

The opening event was attended by many Greek officials and Chinese investors.

"When Greece faced a severe financial crisis, China was the first country which showed trust in the prospects of our country and proceeded in the major investment at Piraeus port... We are looking forward to deeper and wider relations and cooperation," Greek deputy Prime Minister Panagiotis Pikrammenos said when addressing the event.

"You have chosen the right moment to invest in Greece, as the country is turning page to growth. We welcome you to Greece and wish you best success in all your projects," Nikos Papathanasis, Deputy Minister of Development and Investments, added.

Athens Chamber of Tradesmen President Ioannis Chatzitheodosiou on his part said Greece warmly welcomes more Chinese investments and more Greek products should reach the Chinese market.

"Coexistence, Cooperation and Harmony are the key words and goals in the establishment of the confederation," Michael Xia, President of the Sino-Hellenic Investors' Confederation, stressed.

Chinese investors who have arrived in Greece in recent years investing in the country in a spirit of win-win cooperation want to further help the recovery and development of Greek economy and boost their bonds with Greek people, he said.

After the official ceremony, several Chinese investors and their families welcomed their Greek friends at the confederation's premises to celebrate together the forthcoming Chinese New Year, sharing Chinese food, Greek desserts and wishes for health, prosperity and happiness.