Lindt & Sprüngli Travel Retail is celebrating Chinese New Year 2020 (CNY) with a new promotional campaign starring actress and Lindt China Brand Ambassador (瑞士莲中国区品牌代言人), Xin Zhilei. One of China’s most successful young actresses, Zhilei has had leading roles in many blockbuster films.

She will be the face of Lindt Chinese New Year installations appearing at selected China airports and downtown stores and Dubai Duty Free stores, while also featuring across a social media and digital campaign. Dubai Duty Free customers will additionally be able to take a selfie with a virtual version of the star via the Lindt Magical Selfie Mirror, from now until March 2020.

CNY festive specials from the brand include Chinese New Year Assorted Lindt Napolitains Carrier Box 500g, with the bestselling Lindt Napolitains available in a collectible sharing box featuring an eye-catching fireworks design. A 145g gift box, complete with fireworks motif and filled with Lindt Swiss Masterpieces, is also available.

Travel-retail shoppers will also find Lindor Tubes in CNY colours of classic red (Lindor Milk) and premium gold (Lindor Milk, Dark, White and Hazelnut). Lindt’s reports that Lindor is its most popular and versatile brand, and growing in popularity amongst Chinese travellers.

All products in the Chinese New Year range are travel-retail exclusive, contain no alcohol, and are available across the Asia Pacific region and worldwide. Their launch is being supported via impactful displays, augmented with eclectic animated fireworks. These are located at key travel sites – including Hong Kong, Shanghai, Hainan Island, Taipei, Singapore, Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur, Phnom Penh, Siem Reap, Melbourne and Sydney – until February 5.

Peter Zehnder, General Manager of Lindt & Sprüngli Travel Retail, said: “We’re delighted to be working with our new Lindt China Brand Ambassador (瑞士莲中国区品牌代言人) Xin Zhilei on our latest activity celebrating Chinese New Year. As one of China’s leading young actresses, her presence in our new campaign will reinforce the reputation of Lindt as a prestigious global brand and raise awareness among Chinese millennial shoppers.”