Carolyn Bernota and Gon Valente enjoyed Shen Yun at George Mason University Center for the Arts in Fairfax, Virginia on Jan. 18, 2020. (Sophia Zheng/The Epoch Times)

FAIRFAX, Virginia–Carolyn Bernota and Gon Valente went to see Shen Yun Performing Arts at George Mason University Center for the Arts on Jan. 18, 2020, and left the theater uplifted.

Bernota finished watching the performance feeling hopeful and fortunate.

“It’s better than I expected, and it was a message through the screen, through the arts, there were several messages that I thought were pretty powerful, and just coming here you get that message,” she said.

Bernota is an environmental scientist for the United States Environmental Protection Agency. She has lived overseas and worked in the military. In her time abroad, Bernota has visited several parts of Asia.

Gon Valente is a retired photographer and former military service member.

Digital Presentation

Shen Yun, which is based in New York, has brought stagecraft in theaters to a higher level of creativity with the original idea of digital projection.

According to the company’s website, the performing arts company’s patented use of digital projection immerses the audience into the world in which the dances take place.

Bernota was amazed by this facet of Shen Yun’s performance.

She said, “First of all, that digital presentation was spot on with modern technology and moving forward, so I thought that was beautiful brought together.”

Together with the musicians in the orchestra pit and dancers in colorful costumes on stage, the effect is altogether something new.

“Now you have the digital presentation which I thought was pretty impressive and brings it all together with modern technology, and how we’re moving forward,” Bernota said.

For Valente, he found the virtual backdrop incredible.

“I was looking at the background and seeing how the digital imagery, relating it to old fashion photography, it was just … composition and color and balance, it was just unbelievable,” he said.

The Effect of Shen Yun’s Music

Shen Yun Performing Arts features classical music in accompaniment with classical Chinese dance. In ancient China, it was said that music could have a positive impact on the human body.

It is common to hear from audience members the great feeling they have from listening to Shen Yun’s orchestra.

Valente said he felt at ease and very relaxed. Bernota experienced a change in mindset from when she listened to the music.

“I think it kind of gave a kind of a hope, a feeling of, you know, there is hope when you look at how it all brought together—the colors and soothing music and colors, and then the message at the end really I think brought a sense of hope to the audience,” she said.

With reporting by Sophia Zheng and Don Tran.

The Epoch Times considers Shen Yun Performing Arts the significant cultural event of our time and has covered audience reactions since the company’s inception in 2006.