Sign up to FREE email alerts from PlymouthLive - Daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

Choosing a school for your child can be a difficult task.

There's scores of schools in Plymouth and whilst it may be convenient to choose the closest one, Ofsted reports and ratings can also be a huge factor in parents' decisions.

There are 15 primary, secondary and nursery schools that have been handed a 'good' or 'outstanding' rating in the last 12 months.

The Ofsted website states that 88 schools currently have 'outstanding' or 'good' status, but the majority of these ratings were handed out in previous years.

There are four main Ofsted categories, the highest being 'outstanding', which is grade one.

Grade two is 'good', grade three is 'requires improvement' and grade four, 'inadequate', which usually means that it is placed into a 'special measures' or 'serious weaknesses' category, however there are no categories for an early years provider.

Plymouth Live reported last year how a number of Plymouth schools rated 'outstanding' by Ofsted have not been inspected for up to ten years.

There are eight schools in Plymouth and surrounding areas which were given the highest possible rating by Ofsted between 2009 and 2012 and have not been inspected since.

You can check the rating of any education provider on the Ofsted website, here.

The schools given a 'good' or 'outstanding' rating between February 2019 and February 2020, appear in the list below.

Mayflower Academy was handed the highest rating - outstanding - in September 2016.

Ofsted inspections carried out a monitoring visit on December 3, 2019 and found the school to continue to be 'outstanding'.

The report states: "Teachers pay close attention to the latest research on how pupils learn and how best to help them do so. As a result, the curriculum is securely built on a shared and clearly articulated approach to teaching. In history, this teaching ensures that pupils’ learning is carefully sequenced so that they reach the ambitious goals that staff set them.

"Consequently, pupils are developing both their substantive and disciplinary historical knowledge well. The history curriculum is ambitious for all pupils. Pupils who might need a little extra support, including pupils with special educational needs and/or disabilities, are helped to achieve the same challenging goals as their peers.

"From the early years onwards, there is a coherent programme in place to develop pupils’ historical knowledge. In Nursery and Reception, children learn to distinguish past, present and future. They learn that people and things change over time."

Download the Plymouth Live app The Plymouth Live app for Android and Apple devices can be tailored to deliver the news and sport that you're interested in. It means you can get the news which matters to you faster than ever before - and all the breaking news before anyone else. It's fast, free and light on adverts. Discover our full range news and features from the area including the latest on Argyle, sport, business, news where you live, weather and what's on. Just one quick download and you can read our content on the move without being online. To download the iOS app click here.

To download the Android app click here. Find out more about the app here. Plymouth Live has also launched a WhatsApp group for breaking news alerts, keeping you up to date with all the major incidents and traffic and travel news as it happens in Plymouth. Click here to join. Your number won't be shared with anyone else in the group. If you want more information on signing up, or if this link doesn’t work, click here.

Achievement Training Limited was handed the 'good' rating after an inspection on January 8 and 9, 2020.

The training centre was praised in a number of areas, including the "person and professional support" that is provided for their learners.

The report states: "The effectiveness of the personal and professional support they provide is a key strength of the provision. It is one of the main reasons learners give when they explain why they enjoy and make good progress in learning. Just under half of all learners at ATL go on to achieve at successively higher levels of ATL courses or elsewhere.

"ATL’s apprentices benefit from a curriculum that is built on close and productive relationships with public- and private-sector employers in the region. Adult learners and trainees also benefit from good contact with employers, such as additional opportunities for industry-specific training and/or work experience. ATL learners feel safe and are treated fairly by college staff.

"They are attentive and keen to learn. They are consistently respectful of others and behave well."

(Image: Mike Yeats)

Devonport High School for Girls was handed a 'good' rating after an inspection on November 19 and 20, 2019.

The school was handed two 'outstanding' ratings and three 'good ratings.

It was rating 'good' in the following categories; the quality of education, leadership and management and sixth-form provision.

It was rating 'outstanding' in behaviour and attitudes and personal development.

The report states: "Pupils receive a good quality of education. Across the curriculum, pupils develop very strong knowledge, skills and understanding that prepare them very well for the next steps in their education.

"Pupils achieve well. Pupils’ attitudes to learning are outstanding.

"Pupils relish the opportunities to learn about the world around them. For example, pupils value trips to France and China to further improve their language skills. Pupils’ behaviour, both in lessons and around the school, is outstanding. Pupils are attentive, focused and supportive of each other.

"Devonport High School for Girls helps pupils to become model citizens. Through the curriculum, pupils develop an exceptionally strong understanding of democracy and the importance of helping each other. Year 12 and 13 students help younger pupils with their studies and their well-being. Younger pupils describe Year 12 and 13 students as ‘big sisters’.

"Staff provide an exceptional level of care for pupils. Staff prioritise pupils’ mental well-being. Pupils agree that staff look after their welfare very well. Pupils have high aspirations. Staff provide pupils with exceptionally detailed information about further education and employment. Pupils feel very well supported in making decisions about their next steps."

Plym Bridge Nursery and Day Care was found to continue to be a 'good' school after a short inspection on February 7, 2019.

The report states: "The leadership team has maintained the good quality of education in the school since the last inspection. Following your arrival in January 2019, you have settled very quickly to continue previous leaders’ good work.

"Your expert knowledge of how children of this age learn, coupled with strong guiding principles for effective teaching, ensures that children are well supported to get off to a good start.

"The particular focus on children’s early language and communication development, as well as their social, emotional and personal development, means that children achieve well.

"Many are ready for school, even those who had entered the Nursery at a level a little below that which is typical for their age."

Fletewood School at Derry Villas on North Road East, was handed a 'good' rating after an inspection on November 19 and 20, 2019.

Inspectors found the school to be 'good' in three out of five categories and 'outstanding' in two out of five categories.

The school was found to be 'good' in the following categories; the quality of education, behaviour and attitudes and leadership and management.

It was found to be 'outstanding' in personal development and early years provision.

The report adds: "Fletewood is a small school that parents and carers say feels like a family. Pupils enjoy coming to school and behave well. Everyone in the school shows very high levels of respect for each other. The headteacher’s vision is that pupils should learn how to become responsible members of society.

"Staff and governors share this vision. This means that there are high expectations for personal development and academic learning. The Christian ethos of the school supports this vision. Pupils work hard in lessons and are enthusiastic about their learning. Classes are small. As well as a teacher, there is a teaching assistant in each class to support pupils.

"This means that pupils who need extra help get the support they need. Leaders provide frequent opportunities for pupils to engage with the local community. There are strong links with local charities.

"Pupils have also worked to provide resources for adults with special needs in a local park. Pupils get on very well with each other. Strong relationships with staff mean that pupils can share any concerns they have. As a result, bullying is not an issue in this school. As one parent put it, ‘we are lucky to have found this school.’"

St Budeaux Foundation CofE (Aided) Junior School was handed the 'good' rating after an inspection on December 18, 2019.

Inspectors found that pupils "thoroughly enjoy" going to school, which is reflected "in their high levels of attendance".

The report states: "The school’s values of forgiveness, love, respect and joy permeate the school. High standards of behaviour are ingrained in the fabric of the school. This is because staff have high expectations.

"Pupils are focused in their lessons and cherish their social time. Warm and caring relationships between pupils and staff contribute to pupils’ resolute attitudes to learning. Staff know their pupils and families well. This provides teaching staff with a strong platform to launch a good quality of education. Pupils say that they feel safe and cared for. Pupils told us that bullying does not happen.

"They say that in the past, bullying did happen, but are confident that it does not happen anymore. They also say that staff are quick to resolve any incidents or worries. This view is also shared by parents and carers who responded to Ofsted’s online survey, Parent View.

"Pupils appreciate the additional opportunities they have to take on further responsibility. They are particularly enthusiastic about their roles as ‘worship warriors’ to promote the school’s Christian values. Pupils say they feel listened to and that their views are taken into consideration."

(Image: Goosewell Primary School)

Goosewell Primary Academy had its first ever inspection as an academy on December 3 and 4, 2019.

It was found to be good in all five categories inspected; the quality of education, behaviour and attitudes, personal development, leadership and management and early years provision.

The report states: "Pupils thrive at Goosewell Primary Academy. They enjoy learning and making friends. Many pupils told inspectors that the school was very friendly and that pupils were kind and well behaved.

"Pupils learn about the importance of acting respectfully and with empathy for others throughout the curriculum. One pupil’s comment echoed the views of many: ‘It’s 2019, we don’t do sexism or racism, we’ve moved on.’ Pupils embrace the challenges that teachers set in their lessons.

"They think carefully about how they learn. For example, pupils use the classroom displays to check their spellings. Staff foster pupils’ thirst for knowledge well. Children in Reception develop positive attitudes to learning.

"Children share their toys and help each other to read and write. Pupils behave very well, both in lessons and throughout the school. Staff do not have to remind pupils of the rules of the classroom. Pupils helped to create the rules and follow them diligently.

"Pupils with special educational needs and/or disabilities (SEND) learn alongside other pupils. They enjoy their lessons and flourish through strong support. The majority of parents and carers are positive about the quality of education at the school. They appreciate the ways in which staff care for their children."

Woodfield Primary School

(Image: Submitted)

Woodfield Primary School in Whitleigh was handed a 'good' rating after an inspection on October 30 and October 31, 2019.

The report found that "respect lies at the heart of the school's work" and that pupils feel their views matter, that staff will listen to them and they enjoy their lessons.

It adds: "Staff help pupils to develop the personal qualities that will help them to learn well. The school provides a wide range of activities and clubs to develop pupils’ sporting and creative talents.

"Teachers have high expectations and pupils aim to reach these. Leaders provide staff with the skills they need to do their job well. Staff are conscientious and share leaders’ desire to improve. Everyone works towards the same goals.

"As a result, pupils are well prepared for the next stage of their education when they leave Woodfield. Pupils are proud of their school and their achievements. Teachers make learning interesting.

"Pupils work together well. The school’s work prepares pupils to be good citizens in the future. Pupils appreciate that everyone is different and that everyone struggles with different things.

"As a result, pupils develop determination in their own efforts and an understanding of others. Bullying is rare. Pupils are confident that staff will help them to sort out any disagreements they may have."

Head teacher Ciara Moran said: “I am immensely proud of this report. We are thrilled that the inspector recognised so many positive things about our school.

"Woodfield is a place where children and happy and can thrive and this report is a real credit to the staff who work so hard to make our school so special”.

Ernesettle Community School

Ernesettle Community School was handed the highest possible mark - outstanding - after an inspection on November 19 and 20.

The education watchdog found that the school were over-performing in every single category it was checked in, making it not only the first school to receive the 'outstanding' status of 2019, but to be the first to score top marks through the new framework, which came in this September.

The report states: "Leaders, staff and governors are relentless in their pursuit of excellence.

"Regardless of pupils’ starting points, high expectations and aspirations permeate the school. Leaders and staff ensure that all pupils are equipped with the necessary tools to reach their full potential and beyond.

"By the time pupils leave Ernesettle, they achieve exceptionally well. Pupils who responded to the survey were very proud of their school. One pupil said, ‘you simply cannot improve this school'."

Ace Schools Plymouth, at Martins Gate, Bretonside, was handed the 'good' rating after an inspection held on February 13 and 14, 2019.

The school scored 'good' ratings in all four categories inspected by Ofsted inspectors, including effectiveness of leadership and management, quality of teaching learning and assessment, personal development behaviour and welfare and outcomes for pupils.

The key findings of the report include: "Leaders are passionate that every pupil, whatever their previous education history, deserves another chance to succeed. As a result of their commitment to providing highquality provision, pupils do well.

"Leaders have developed strong systems of management across sites. There are common expectations and systems of accountability. Individual sites are, therefore, well organised.

"Leaders work very hard to safeguard pupils. They are very aware of the many risks to their pupils. They have established good relationships with outside agencies. There is a very strong safeguarding culture throughout ACE.

"Teaching is of high quality on most sites. It is tailored precisely to individual needs and underpinned by very strong relationships between adults and pupils. This quality is not as consistent on the Bretonside site."

(Image: Google Street View)

Montpelier Primary School at North Down Road in Beacon Park, was rated 'good' after an inspection on September 24 and 25 2019.

The school received a 'good' in all four categories inspected by Ofsted inspectors, including effectiveness of leadership and management, quality of teaching learning and assessment, personal development behaviour and welfare and outcomes for pupils.

Sam Hunter, head teacher at the school, said: "‘The Ofsted team told us it was a privilege to be in our school and that was a wonderful thing to hear."

The Ofsted report states: "Montpelier School is a caring environment in which to learn and play. Pupils enjoy their time at school. They told us that they feel happy, safe and well looked after. They know who to turn to if they have a worry or a concern.

"Teachers and pupils get on well together. Positive relationships promote pupils’ love of learning. Pupils appreciate the many additional opportunities to get involved in school life. They particularly enjoy the wide range of clubs and activities on offer. Pupils speak enthusiastically about the wider contributions they make to society.

"They help run stalls at the school fayre and raise money for different charities. Pupils behave well. They approach their learning with interest and enthusiasm and work hard in lessons. Pupils are confident in leaders’ systems for managing behaviour. They say that these have impacted positively on bullying and poor behaviour around the school.

"Pupils say that they find their work challenging. This is because teachers have high expectations for what they can achieve. Pupils told us that they receive additional support if they find learning challenging."

Notre Dame RC School, on Looseleigh Lane in Derriford, received the 'good' rating after an inspection on June 4 2019.

The school received a 'good' in all five categories inspected by Ofsted inspectors, including effectiveness of leadership and management, quality of teaching learning and assessment, personal development behaviour, 16 to 19 study programmes and welfare and outcomes for pupils.

The report states: "Leaders and governors have created an inclusive school in which most pupils are well supported with both their academic and their personal challenges.

"Leaders have high expectations for all pupils, who are encouraged to do their best. Attainment is above average in most subjects.

"Leaders at all levels understand the strengths and weaknesses of the school. Teaching and learning are monitored carefully. However, leaders do not evaluate precisely the impact of teaching on pupils’ progress.

"Teaching in most subjects is engaging and effective. Teachers’ planning takes into account most pupils’ needs. Even so, the expectations of some teaching are not high enough. This is reflected in the standard of some pupils’ work.

"The progress of the most able pupils is improving but teaching does not challenge consistently some of the most able pupils to achieve well.

"Pupils’ writing and their spoken language skills are developed well. However, leaders have not yet developed a similarly coordinated approach to the teaching of reading and numeracy."

(Image: Woodford Primary School)

Woodford Primary School based on Litchaton Way in Plympton, was handed the 'good' rating after a full inspection on May 1, 2019.

The school received a 'good' in all five categories inspected by Ofsted inspectors, including effectiveness of leadership and management, quality of teaching learning and assessment, personal development behaviour, early years provision and welfare and outcomes for pupils.

The report states: "During a challenging time for the school, the whole community has come together. There is a remarkably strong sense of team work and an absolute focus on ensuring that the school becomes the best it can be.

"Leaders, including the trust and governors, are ambitious for pupils. There is a relentless drive to continue to implement improvements to teaching, learning and assessment. As a result, the quality of the education provided is good.

"The strong leadership team has secured the trust and goodwill of staff. Leaders support staff well, providing clear expectations and feedback. Because of this, staff are motivated, and morale is high.

"There are strong systems for assessing pupils’ progress. As a result, most teaching and learning is built on a deep and secure understanding of pupils’ next steps. Teachers plan learning that challenges pupils to apply and extend their knowledge.

"Consequently, most pupils, including disadvantaged pupils and pupils with special educational needs and/or disabilities (SEND), make good progress."

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

Millbrook CofE Primary School on Blindwell Hill in Milbrook, was handed the rating after an inspection on May 21, 2019.

The school received a 'good' in all five categories inspected by Ofsted inspectors, including effectiveness of leadership and management, quality of teaching learning and assessment, personal development behaviour, early years provision and welfare and outcomes for pupils.

The report states: "Leaders, together with effective support from the trust and governors, have successfully improved the quality of education since the previous inspection.

"The trust has added capacity to leadership at every level. Collectively, leaders are determined to provide pupils with the best possible education. Middle leaders are not yet contributing as much as they might to the drive for improvement.

"The curriculum provides pupils with a wide range of learning activities. It is very well enriched through trips, visitors and clubs. It enables pupils to make strong progress in a wide range of subjects, including outdoor education.

"Leaders have established a culture of high expectations. This means the quality of teaching is good and improving. In the past, pupils’ progress was weak. Most pupils now make at least good progress.

"The board of trustees has gained a good understanding of the school and holds leaders to account for their actions. The local governing body is new. Members are aware of the need to extend their knowledge and develop a comprehensive understanding of how actions are bringing about improvements."

(Image: Google)

Lady Modiford's Church of England Primary School in Walkhampton, Yelverton, was given the 'good' rating after a full inspection on July 10, 2019.

The school received a 'good' in all five categories inspected by Ofsted inspectors, including effectiveness of leadership and management, quality of teaching learning and assessment, personal development behaviour, early years provision and welfare and outcomes for pupils.

The report states: "Leaders and governors are ambitious for the school. They work well together to improve the quality of teaching, learning and assessment and pupils’ progress.

"Leaders have created a strong sense of collaboration among staff, who are reflective on their leadership and teaching. As a result, staff are constantly looking for ways to improve their practice and pupils’ outcomes.

"Leaders know the strengths and weaknesses of the school. However, action plans to secure improvements are not precise enough. They do not enable governors to see fully the impact they are having on raising the achievement of pupils.

"The curriculum is a strength of the school. It uses the local environment and community well. This enables pupils to develop further an understanding of the world around them and themselves as citizens.

"Teachers’ and additional adults’ subject knowledge is strong. Their use of questioning develops pupils’ thinking. This ensures that current pupils make strong progress."