The 2020 edition and Saudi Arabia’s first International Petroleum Technology Conference (IPTC) opened today in Dhahran, participated by over 8,000 oil and gas professionals.

The conference will run under the theme ‘Vision to Prosperity: A New Energy Era Emerges’ till January 15 at the Dhahran Expo under the patronage of His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence of Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

Saudi Aramco hosted the opening ceremony of conference taking place in Saudi Arabia for the first time. With keynote addresses by Prince Abdulaziz Bin Salman, Minister of Energy, and Yasir O Rumayyan, Chairman of Saudi Aramco, the IPTC attracted more than 15,000 delegates from 70 countries. With the kingdom hosting the G-20 summit this year, Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H Nasser congratulated Saudi government entities for their successful efforts in securing the prestigious industry conference to be held in the kingdom. Nasser emphasised the need to transition to a lower carbon energy mix and highlighted the role the energy industry has played in creating the economic prosperity the world enjoys today. "With IPTC 2020, we have the perfect platform to push forward in our efforts to demonstrate that our industry is an integral part of the long-term solution to global energy challenges. As part of the energy transition, I firmly believe, oil and gas will continue to play a significant role for a long time to come. " He added: "We have the capability to be leaders when it comes to addressing the need for more energy with less emissions and I am confident that our industry has the talent and the innovative mindset, which is required to find the best and most pragmatic solutions. " Nasser participated in a plenary session with industry CEOs to discuss the theme ‘Vision to Prosperity: A New energy Era Emerges'. Saudi Aramco’s Senior Vice President Upstream Mohammed Al-Qahtani, Chief Digital Officer Nabil Al Nuaim, and VP Petroleum Engineering & Development Nasir K. Al-Naimi are also scheduled to speak during the conference. The conference will, for the first time, incorporate workshops examining the importance of Diversity and Inclusion in the sector, an area in which Saudi Aramco has significantly advanced in recent years.

IPTC 2020 will spark discussions about key solutions and technologies that will take the industry on a path of further development.

Commenting on the event, Mohammed Al Qahtani, Senior Vice President, Upstream, Saudi Aramco, and IPTC 2020 Executive Committee Chair, said: “The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is proud to host this year’s International Petroleum Technology Conference for the very first time. Attended by industry leaders and sponsored by four premier petroleum organisations and societies, IPTC 2020 brings together global experts to share their knowledge, innovation and latest technologies in what has become the flagship multi-disciplinary event in the Eastern Hemisphere.”

He added: “At the crossroads of Europe, Africa and Asia, as well as the home of the world’s largest oil and gas company and some of the world’s largest oil reserves, Saudi Arabia is truly an exceptional location for this distinguished event.”

IPTC is recognised as a landmark event and brings together the who’s who of the oil and gas industry. This year, the event will see a prestigious line-up of global thought leaders, CEOs and executives from leading NOCs, IOCs, and government officials.

Delegates will have the opportunity to network, discover, share and exchange their experiences, successes, and learnings with over 8000 like-minded professionals from around the world.

Taking place simultaneously over 6,900 sq m, an exhibition feature over 250 exhibitors showcasing their latest products and technology, enabling delegates and visitors to discuss potential partnerships and projects.

This year’s comprehensive agenda will feature distinguished industry experts speaking at the Opening Session, CEO Plenary Session, Executive Plenary Session, Energy Think Tank Plenary Session, 5 Panel Sessions, and IPTC Society Presidents Panel Session. Global industry professionals will focus on various topics and trends spanning 100 technical sessions. Delegates will be presented with ample opportunities to network and experience true Saudi Arabian hospitality at the Cultural Reception.

Some of the influential speakers at the conference include Amin Nasser, President and CEO, Saudi Aramco; Peter Coleman, CEO and Managing Director, Woodside Energy; Abdulmunim Saif Al Kindy, Executive Director, Upstream Directorate, Adnoc; Darren Woods, Chairman and CEO, Exxon Mobil Corporation; Jeff Miller, Chairman, President and CEO, Halliburton; Patrick Pouyanné, Chairman and CEO, Total; Lorenzo Simonelli, Chairman and CEO, Baker Hughes; Wan Zulkiflee bin Wan Ariffin, President and Group CEO, Petronas; Michael Train, President, Emerson, Chairman, Emerson Automation Solutions; and Daniel Yergin, Vice Chairman, IHS Markit.

For professionals interested in enhancing their technical knowledge, four seminars will be offered on topics such as reservoir compartmentalisation, geomechanics, and machine learning. The Diversity and Inclusion Panel Sessions and Workshop will stimulate discussions on best practices to increase diversity, promote inclusion, and to encourage the concept of belonging.

IPTC 2020 will cater to the dynamic interests of global oil and gas professionals, and spark discussions about key solutions and technologies that will take the industry on a path of further development and innovation.

IPTC 2020 is supported by Saudi Aramco as the Exclusive Host); TAQA (Principal, IPTC Lounge, and Day 1 Networking Lunch Sponsor); Huawei (Principal and Mobile App Sponsor); Adnoc, Baker Hughes, ExxonMobil, Halliburton, Schlumberger (Principal Sponsors); NESR (Diamond and Lanyards Sponsor); ARO Drilling, Sinopec (Platinum Sponsors); PTTEP (Gold and Floor Graphics Sponsor); Global Suhaimi, Rawabi Holding, Tatweer Petroleum (Gold Sponsors); Petrolink, SANAD (Silver Sponsors); Saudi Arabian Chevron (Conference Bags Sponsor); Total (Directional Signage Sponsor); Microsoft (Digital Transformation Sponsor); ARGAS (Registration Sponsor); KPC (Badges Sponsor); OiLSERV (Visitor Carrier Bags); Wanli (Bottled Water Sponsor); PETRONAS (Closing Session Sponsor); Weatherford (Author Lounge Sponsor); Shelf Drilling (Visitor Planner Sponsor); NOV (Day 1 Coffee Breaks Sponsor); FlexSteel (Day 2 Coffee Breaks Sponsor); ADES (Bronze Sponsor); Petrofac (Associate Sponsor); AES, Al Abdulkarim Holding, Drager, NITI, Owl Cyber Defense (Corporate Sponsors).

Founded in 2005, IPTC is a multidisciplinary technical event in the Eastern Hemisphere and is a collaborative effort among the American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG), the European Association of Geoscientists and Engineers (EAGE), the Society of Exploration Geophysicists (SEG), and the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE).

The scope of the conference programme and associated industry activities address technology and relevant industry issues that challenge industry specialists and management around the world.

IPTC’s mission is to promote, aid, and encourage technology dissemination and collaboration amongst the multiple disciplines of the petroleum industry.

Last year’s IPTC was held at the Beijing International Convention Center Beijing, China, from March 26-28, 2019, and was themed, ‘Partnership and Innovation: The Silk Road towards a Sustainable Energy Future’

IPTC 2019 was China’s second after a previous event held in 2013. It was hosted by China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) and co-hosted by Saudi Aramco. - TradeArabia News Service