The 2020 Chinese Spring Festival will be celebrated in East Africa’s largest mall, Two Rivers, in Kenya, the Soko Directory reported.





The ten-day event is celebrated by 20% of the world's population. Festivities end on February 2.

The festival was organised by Two Rivers in partnership with the Chinese Embassy, the Confucius Institute at the University of Nairobi, and the Erdemann Chinese Culture Centre.

According to the Soko Directory, activities will include a Chinese wishing tree, Chinese costumes and photo booths, a children's zodiac centre, Chinese cuisine, and Chinese art classes.

Speaking at the launch of the celebrations, Two Rivers general manager Theodoros Pantis said hosting the celebration was a perfect fit with the mall's mission to embrace the diversity of its shoppers.

"Our key strategy is to offer worldwide experiences to our visitors under the theme Around the World. Hosting the Chinese New Year festivities is a perfect fit. In celebrating the Chinese New Year, we are taking our visitors on an enriching experience to discover the beauty of China in cultural Chinese traditions, games, performances, and dishes as they enjoy our tenant offering.

Speaking when he officially opened the celebrations, Wang Xuezheng, counsellor of the Chinese Embassy to Kenya, said such festivities were vital in highlighting the time-honoured cultural heritage of China’s ancient civilisation.

"Such events continue to play a big role in improving relations between the Chinese community and our Kenyan hosts and we are grateful to Two Rivers for undertaking to host this year’s celebrations. With the sound and rapid progress in China-Kenya bilateral relations, high-level visits have become more frequent, political mutual trust has been strengthened, and cultural exchanges have become increasingly developed."

The Chinese New Year also referred to as the Lunar New Year is the most important traditional festival in China and is celebrated through various activities around the Spring Festival. This year will be the Year of the Rat, which in the Chinese zodiac symbolises wit, dexterity, and self-improvement in both diversity and adversity.





African News Agency (ANA)