Kung Hei Fat Choi! (“Happy New Year” in Cantonese)

World FM is happy to celebrate the incoming Lunar New Year and introduce the year of the rat! Chinese New Year (also known as The Spring Festival) happens on Saturday, January 25th. This is one of the most important cultural holidays in China. It is not a myth that China sets off the highest amount of fireworks in the world this day each year. Children receive “lucky money” in red envelopes and you eat dumplings every meal, every day. In China, and around the world, it’s not uncommon to see homes decorated in red in hopes to scare off monsters. Many Edmontonians will be celebrating at The Edmonton Chinatown Multicultural Centre and West Edmonton Mall’s Lunar New Year Extravaganza, an event that engages the Chinese communities by hosting traditional dance, music and art showcases. More information below.

Here is a Lunar New Years’ greeting from hosts of our Mandarin and Cantonese programs, Fang Tong and Jingxian!

“We wish everybody has good health and your dreams come true. We wish everybody is prosperous in their careers and students make lots of progress. We hope your families live in harmony. 2020 is the Year of the Rat, meaning this year will have characteristics of an animal with spirit, wit, alertness, delicacy, flexibility, and vitality. Our favorite part of celebrating the Chinese New Year is our entire families reuniting for dinner. The atmosphere is always very lively and interesting. Thank you for supporting World FM! Kung Hei!” – Fang Tong & Jingxian



The Edmonton Chinatown Multicultural Centre and West Edmonton Mall are proud to present A Lunar New Year Extravaganza! Celebrations run until January 25, with daily activities taking place in Chinatown (Level 2, Phase III) from 4 to 6 p.m.



Details:



A Lunar New Year Extravaganza

Rice Writing with a take-home craft

January 21 & 22

Chinatown (Level Two, Phase III) | 4 to 6 p.m.

Karaoke at L1 Lounge

January 22

L1 Lounge (Level One, Phase IV) | 8 to 1 a.m.

Chinese Dances

January 23

Chinatown (Level Two, Phase III) | 4 to 6 p.m.

Ice Carving

January 24

Chinatown (Level Two, Phase III) | 4 to 6 p.m.

Indoor Sparkler Show and Entertainment

January 25

Chinatown (Level Two, Phase III) | 4 to 6 p.m.