Hongkong, China, 2020-Feb-05 — /Travel PR News/ — In honor of the hotel’s 20th anniversary, five-star Mandarin Oriental, Miami is gifting newlyweds the honeymoon of a lifetime with the ‘Platinum Wedding and Honeymoon’ offer. Named for the traditional 20th anniversary gift of platinum, the offer includes a seven-night honeymoon at any Mandarin Oriental hotel worldwide when booking a wedding at the Miami hotel.

The complimentary seven-day stay is exclusively available to couples who book a wedding at Mandarin Oriental, Miami now through 31 December 2020. Newlyweds may select a stay from the group’s portfolio of 33 hotels and resorts: explore the desert of Marrakech, relax on the white sand beaches of Canouan, or experience the epitome of romance in Paris.

From private beach weddings to ballroom affairs, Mandarin Oriental, Miami sets the scene for an unforgettable day. Venues combine touches of Asia with chic tropical Miami vibes and can be transformed to meet any vision.

Beyond the ceremony and reception, the hotel offers a variety of amenities to enhance the couple’s big day. The wedding party and guests can enjoy the five-star Spa, MO Bar + Lounge featuring sophisticated hand-crafted cocktails or fine dining at the high-energy Peruvian inspired restaurant La Mar by Gastón Acurio.

Offer is available for all hotel wedding bookings made before 31 December 2020, with a minimum catering spend of USD 200,000. For more information regarding the Platinum Offer please visit Mandarin Oriental, Miami/Weddings.

Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group

Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group is the award-winning owner and operator of some of the world’s most luxurious hotels, resorts and residences. Having grown from its Asian roots into a global brand, the Group now operates 33 hotels and seven residences in 23 countries and territories, with each property reflecting the Group’s oriental heritage and unique sense of place. Mandarin Oriental has a strong pipeline of hotels and residences under development, and is a member of the Jardine Matheson Group.

Mandarin Oriental, Miami

Contemporary in design and with a prominent waterfront location, the luxurious Mandarin Oriental, Miami – launched in 2000 – features 326 elegant guest rooms and suites – offering dramatic views of the bay and the Miami skyline. Amenities include two high-energy restaurants, waterfront Peruvian punch cocktail lounge YAKU by La Mar, MO Bar + Lounge – a sophisticated cocktail lounge and martini bar, an award-winning tri-level spa, luxury boutique Karma Gift Shoppe and extensive meeting and business facilities.

Contact:

Public Relations Manager

Andrea Alava

AALAVA@MOHG.COM

+1 (305) 913 8288

Source: Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group