视频播放位置 下载安装Flash播放器

Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa met with visiting Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Monday in Harare.

Mnangagwa said Zimbabwe and China enjoy profound friendship and that Zimbabwe regards China as a sincere and reliable friend. The Zimbabwean leader said that he has met with Chinese President Xi Jinping many times and the two heads of state decided to elevate bilateral relations to a comprehensive strategic partnership, an elevation that Zimbabwe is pleased with and proud of.

In the process of striving for national independence, safeguarding national sovereignty and opposing Western interference and sanctions, China has always extended firm support to Zimbabwe, which the southern-African country will never forget, Mnangagwa said.

He said that Harare appreciates China's selfless assistance to Zimbabwe's economic and social development, and hopes that China will continue to help Zimbabwe speed up its economic reform and realize economic recovery.

Zimbabwe firmly supports the one-China principle and will continue to support China on all questions concerning Beijing's core interests, Mnangagwa said.

Zimbabwe hopes to take the opportunity of celebrating the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between two countries to deepen political mutual trust and enhance the level of pragmatic cooperation between Zimbabwe and China. Harare expects more Chinese investors to invest in Zimbabwe, and believes that Zimbabwe will have broader development prospects, Mnangagwa said.

Wang, for his part, said Beijing is Zimbabwe's time-honored and reliable partner and that President Mnangagwa cherishes the friendship with China, adding that China highly appreciates Mnangagwa's personal attention to supporting Zimbabwe-China cooperation that has kept advancing the bilateral relationship to new highs.

China supports Zimbabwe's efforts to safeguard its national sovereignty and dignity, supports Harare's choice of a development path that is in line with its national conditions, and supports Harare's just proposition that unfair sanctions against Zimbabwe should be lifted as soon as possible, Wang said.

Wang said China is willing to see Zimbabwe develop friendly and cooperative relations and expand diplomatic exchanges with more countries; Beijing appreciates Zimbabwe's valuable support on issues related to China's core interests, and will provide assistance to Zimbabwe within its capabilities and share the country's experience in governance.

This year, Wang said, both countries are at a crucial point in their state development and national rejuvenation: while China will meet its target of building a moderately prosperous society in an all-round way and accomplish its first Centenary Goal, Zimbabwe will celebrate the 40th anniversary of its independence and vigorously advance its Vision 2030 blueprint.

China is willing to translate the high degree of political mutual trust between the two sides into an inexhaustible force driving bilateral pragmatic cooperation, and make good use of the Belt and Road Initiative and the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation to promote more cooperation between the two sides to better serve the interests of the two peoples, Wang said.

He also called for closer coordination between the two sides on international and regional issues to deal with challenges more effectively.

During his visit, Wang also met with Zimbabwean Vice President Constantino Chiwenga and held talks with Zimbabwean Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Sibusiuso Moyo.