The Communist Party of Vietnam marks its 90th founding anniversary on February 3rd. (Photo: VNA)



The Lao People’s Revolutionary Party (LPRP), the Communist Party of China (CPC), and the Cambodian People’s Party (CPP) have sent congratulatory messages to the Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV) Central Committee on the occasion of the CPV’s 90th founding anniversary.

First Secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba's Central Committee Raul Castro Ruz, and Chairman of the Workers’ Party of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) Kim Jong-un extended congratulations to Party General Secretary and President Nguyen Phu Trong.

In its congratulatory message, the LPRP Central Committee described the birth of the CPV on February 3rd, 1930, as an important historical turning point in Vietnam’s revolution.

Over the past nine decades, the CPV has organised and led all victories of the Vietnamese revolution in the fight for national independence and freedom, the building of the first socialist country in Southeast Asia in 1945 and the complete liberation and reunification of country in 1975.

The CPV later initiated the Doi Moi (renewal) process and continued to make great and comprehensive accomplishments in national defence and development along the socialist orientation, according to the LPRP.

The LPRP and Lao people highly appreciate and congratulate the CPV and the Vietnamese people on these accomplishments.

“We firmly believe that under the clear-sighted and sound leadership of the CPV headed by Party General Secretary and President Nguyen Phu Trong, the heroic Vietnamese people will reap new achievements and implement successfully the Resolution adopted at the 12th National Congress of the CPV, for the target of wealthy people, strong country and a democratic, equal and civilized society, looking towards the 13th National Party Congress,” the message read.

The LPRP said the Lao Party, State and people commit themselves to do their utmost to preserve and develop the traditional friendship, special solidarity and comprehensive cooperation between Vietnam and Laos for mutual benefits as well as for peace, friendship, cooperation and development in the region and the world.

Meanwhile, the Chinese party’s Central Committee said in its congratulatory message that over the past 90 years, the CPV has led the Vietnamese people to complete successfully the cause of national liberation and reunification, and promote the building of socialism with new achievements.

“We believe that under the firm leadership of the CPV Central Committee headed by General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong, the Vietnamese Party and people will constantly strengthen the leadership of the Party and the socialist regime, promote comprehensively and synchronously the cause of renovation, and proceed to the organisation of the 13th Party National Congress with special achievements,” said the message.

The Communist Party of China affirmed that it always attaches great importance to the development of friendly cooperative relations with the CPV and is willing to partner with the CPV to intensify strategic exchanges, boost political trust, and share theoretical and practical experiences in Party building and national governance, while learning from each other and providing mutual support in exploring each country’s unique path to socialism, as well as jointly developing the China-Vietnam relations in a healthy and stable manner.

In its congratulatory message, the CPP Central Committee praised the huge achievements that the Vietnamese Party, State and people have achieved during the national socio-economic development process, improving people’s living standards and enhancing the nation’s position and role in the international arena.

“The CPP highly values the solidarity, traditional friendship and comprehensive cooperation between the two Parties, States and peoples,” the message said, reiterating the party’s resolve to consolidate the Cambodia-Vietnam relations under the motto of “good neighbourliness, traditional friendship, comprehensive cooperation, long-term sustainability”.

The CPP believed that under the leadership of the CPV, Vietnam will gain greater achievements in realising the resolution adopted at the 12th National Congress of the CPV.

Meanwhile, First Secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba's Central Committee Raul Castro Ruz, reiterated the commitment to the fraternal bond with the CPV and the socialist Vietnam in his message of congratulations to Party General Secretary and President Trong.

He said the celebration of the 60th anniversary of Vietnam-Cuba diplomatic relations in 2020 is an important event, which is a vivid illustration of the long-standing friendship and solidarity between the two countries.

Meanwhile, Chairman of the Workers’ Party of Korea (WPK) and the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) Kim Jong-un stressed that the CPV’s establishment helped the Vietnamese people gain victory in the fight for national liberation and reunification and in the cause of socialism building.

“We rejoice at the great accomplishments that the CPV have been attaining in building a prosperous and civilized socialist country in accordance with the wish of President Ho Chi Minh - the CPV founder,” he wrote.

He expressed his belief that the traditional friendship and cooperation between the CPV and the WPK will be unceasingly consolidated in a joint struggle to protect and complete the socialism building./.