General News of Saturday, 1 February 2020

Source: classfmonline.com

Coronavirus: Ghana gives 50,000RMB to NUGS-China for food

The Ghana Embassy in Beijing, under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Regional Integration, has given out a sum of 50,000RMB to NUGS-China for the procurement of food and protective items for the distressed members in the wake of the Coronavirus outbreak, which has claimed 213 lives and hospitalised more than 9000.



A statement signed by Felix Gyawu-Addo, President of NUGS said this initiative was taken in response to challenges that were raised by Chapter representatives during a four-hour meeting held on the 29th of January, 2020 between the Ghana Embassy, the National Executive Council, and representatives of NUGS-CHINA.



“During the meeting, chapter representatives unanimously affirmed that all Ghanaian students in their respective cities were safe from the virus. They mentioned that the shortage of nose masks and hand sanitizers had led to some concerns and prevented some members from going out to buy basic needs like food and water.



“At the end of the meeting that was chaired by Mr Edward Boateng, Ghana's Ambassador to China, the Embassy Officials promised to channel all the concerns raised by chapter Executives to Accra and respond accordingly,” the statement said.



It continued that: “According to directives from the Embassy during another meeting with the National Executive Committee (NEC) of NUGS-China on the 31st of January, 30,000RMB of the disbursed amount is to be given to Chapters in Hubei Province. Hubei Province is the epicenter of the disease and is also where the lockdown is severest. The remaining 20000RMB is to be committed to the NUGS-China ‘NKWA NA HIA’ fund, created to provide support for all other chapters outside of Hubei Province.”



Speaking of the fund, the statement said: “NUGS-China welcomes any donation either in cash or kind to help provide adequate support for all members under our watch.



“NUGS-China is grateful to the Government of Ghana, The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Regional Integration, and the Ghana Mission in China for such a kind gesture.”



