China Begins Quarantine as Deadly Coronavirus Spreads to 24 Provinces

With over 550 infected across 24 provinces, authorities take measures to limit the spread of the virus before busy holiday travel begins.

As you read this, the world’s largest human migration is already beginning, as over 385 million Chinese prepare to leave major cities to visit their families in rural parts of the country to celebrate Chinese New Year. It’s a massive event, estimated to involve over 3 billion trips as part of a 40-day celebration lasting from January 10th to February 18th.

Across China & around the world, this year’s celebration will be marked by a cloud of uncertainty as a deadly new coronavirus originating in the city of Wuhan spreads rapidly across the region — and leads to concerns that travelers may spread the contagion across the globe as they return home.

The virus appears to have started in this Chinese food market, now closed (BusinessInsider)

What’s being called the Wuhan Coronavirus in the media likely started in the Huanan wholesale seafood market, in the city of Wuhan, in Hubei province. The food market, which is now closed, was known for selling exotic live animals, including live foxes, crocodiles, wolf puppies, giant salamanders, snakes, rats, peacocks, porcupines, and camel meat, which authorities suspect may have contributed to the spread of the disease.

The first case of the pneumonia-like virus called 2019-nCoV was reported to World Health Organization on December 31st, and has already infected over 550 people across 24 Chinese provinces and several countries, including Taiwan, South Korea, Thailand and Japan, with 1 confirmed case in the United States. The death toll so far has remained low, with only 17 fatalities.

Back on January 9th, the WHO released a statement indicating that Chinese authorities had isolated the virus from an infected patient, and found it to be a novel form of coronavirus — making it related to SARS, which caused 8,098 cases and led to 774 deaths across 37 countries back in early 2003.

The Wuhan coronavirus is a cousin of the SARS virus with a lower fatality rate. (WebMD)

The symptoms of the Wuhan coronavirus include “runny nose, cough, sore throat, possibly a headache and maybe a fever, which can last for a couple of days.” Like most viruses, these symptoms can vary greatly in severity from person to person, and often much worse in the elderly and people with compromised immune systems.

Scientist Leon Poon, who first identified the virus, told CNN, “What we know is it causes pneumonia and then doesn’t respond to antibiotic treatment, which is not surprising, but then in terms of mortality, SARS kills 10% of the individuals.” Thus far fatality rates have remained lower than SARS, with only 15% to 20% of cases becoming severe.

Poon is a virologist at the School of Public Health at The University of Hong Kong, and believes that it is zoonotic, meaning it started in an animal and crossed over to human beings, much like rabies, HIV, Ebola, swine & bird flu, and many others. Zoonotic viruses are unpredictable and dangerous because the symptoms they cause may increase in severity as they cross species.

Spread of the Wuhan coronavirus in China (CNN)

In an effort to prevent the further spread of the virus outside of the affected area, the Chinese government announced Wednesday that they would be placing the city of Wuhan under quarantine in the following statement:

[Wuhan’s bus, subway, ferry, and long-distance passenger transport operations are suspended] Wuhan City Epidemic Prevention and Control Headquarters Notice №1: From 10:00 on January 23, 2020, the city’s urban bus, subway, ferry, and long-distance passenger transportation are suspended Operation; for no special reason, citizens should not leave Wuhan, and the airport and railway station from the Han corridor are temporarily closed. Recovery time will be announced separately. [translated by Google]

The quarantine is an escalation of measures already in place by China to help fight the spread of this disease. For several weeks now, China has been using sensor to check the temperature of travelers leaving the affected region, a precaution also being taken at 3 major airports in the United States for inbound air-travelers from Wuhan.

Thermal scanners like this one are used to screen passengers for fever.

The 3 airports initially prepared to screen US-bound passengers are New York City’s JFK International Airport, San Francisco & Los Angeles International Airports, but Atlanta and Chicago have also both announced the plan to begin screenings as well. In addition, Thailand, Hong Kong, Japan and Australia are also working on various measures to monitor traveler health during the outbreak.

In addition to taking measures for prevention & containment, the Chinese government has also been accused of censorship regarding the pandemic, with the media agency Xihua stating, “Wuhan police have investigated eight people for allegedly spreading rumors online”.

As this story continues to develop, more information will become available about the success or failure of the precautionary measures being taken by the WHO and various government health organizations. It is hoped that China’s quarantine is effective, as the upcoming Chinese New Year holiday may otherwise compound the spread of an already virulent pathogen.