THE log trade has picked up again across the Gisborne wharf in the past 10 days but uncertainty continues to hang over the medium to longer term situation.

The sudden downturn last month in the wake of the Coronavirus outbreak in China, among other issues, saw hundreds of forestry workers in the region suddenly out of work.

The Herald understands most have now returned to their forestry work.

But for how long remains a question hanging over the industry nationwide.

Some forestry contractors and crews remain on reduced hours or days while others remain stood-down here and in other parts of the country.

Eastland Wood Council chief executive Kim Holland said the situation varied markedly across the country and remains uncertain.

“We expect things to become clearer in the coming days with an announcement on some sort of relief package from Government to those adversely affected anticipated to come through early next week.

“It is a frustrating situation and we are just having to go with it, evaluating it on a day by day basis.

“We have support mechanisms in place when and if people need them,” Ms Holland said.

“No one knows how the whole Coronavirus situation will play out across China and the globe.

“The situation is changing week by week, and different forestry companies are handling things in different ways.”

The New Zealand Forest Owners Association and the Forestry Ministry Te Uru Rakau are meeting regularly to look at working in a partnership to assess the situation and see what is the best assistance which can be made available.

“But they have been relying on information, which often has been anecdotal.

“Better information is coming through now from China on port space and a small amount of uptake off the wharves by sawmills. But that is only a trend, not a sure timetable for recovery.

“From the discussions I have had with several of our local wood council members, they have harvest plans in place for the next two weeks and will then re-assess.”

Ms Holland said everyone was doing as much as they could to keep their forest crews together and working.

“The situation in China for us is dependent on the manufacturing and processing sector there increasing their production again.”

The Rural Road shows held this week in Te Araroa, Tikitiki, Ruatoria and Tokomaru Bay drew only small numbers.

“We are still collating the information that has come out of those hui,” Ms Holland said.

The operations group formed to manage the situation locally met again yesterday afternoon and what came out of the four hui was on the agenda. IRD reported that they talked to both employers and employees, and that the impact will be felt in April with provisional and terminal tax due.

“I am humbled by the offers of support, from a wide range of community, and local organisations, and if people need help, assistance and/or advice it is there.”

Ms Holland said offers of work had come in for forestry workers as part of the tie-in announced this week with Federated Farmers.

“Some really good offers have been made. We are working through them and matching them up with those who need work.”

Meanwhile, the flow of logs through Eastland Port keeps on keeping on.

The cart-in rate at the port had built up steadily over the past 10 days, said Eastland Port's Andrew Gaddum.

Five log ships were booked to come in over the next couple of weeks.

“While it's reasonably busy at Eastland Port at the moment, in the current environment this can change quickly,” Mr Gaddum said.

“We're continuing to take a watching brief on developments in China.”

Mr Gaddum said Eastland Port and Eastland Group continued to work with other regional leaders through the Mayoral forum to ensure that those affected had as much support and practical help as possible.