Inside out

Heacox (Photo: Courtesy photo)

Is untoward behavior today proof that religions have gone off track? How can rabid hate of the President be justified by any reasonable religious person? Islamic terrorism is a monumental corruption of the Koran. Persecution of religious and other minorities lacks reason and morality.

Karen Armstrong’s book of 2006, “The Great Transformation,” discusses the beginnings of religious traditions, especially in the Axial Age. The Axial Age, from about 900 to 200 BCE, ushered in “Confucianism and Daoism in China, Hinduism and Buddhism in India, monotheism in Israel, and philosophical rationalism in Greece. This was the period of the Buddha, Socrates, Confucius, and Jeremiah, the mystics of the Upanishads, Mencius, and Euripides.” And she states that Rabbinic Judaism, Christianity, and Islam were “latter day flowerings of the Axial age.”

I got two things about the ethos of the Axial Age. (1) It was essential to test any teaching against your personal experience. (2) What mattered is how you behaved and not what you believed.

Your actions demonstrated your beliefs (to yourself and others) and not that actions needed to flow from beliefs. Traditional Christianity emphasizes being saved by faith and not by works. James, however, said faith without works is dead. Maybe one first has faith and the works result. If there were no works, then perhaps the faith was not salvific.

There is an Axial Age emphasis on the Golden Rule, not to do to others what you would not wish others to do to you, as Confucius formulated it. If one acts compassionately, then surely one opens the heart and mind to be elevated and enlightened.

Jamil Zaki, a Stanford psychologist, has written a book, “The War for Kindness: Building Empathy in a Fractured World.” The jacket of this 2019 publication notes that isolation and tribalism are rampant today. Even an academic can, at times, grasp the obvious. He provides no formulas for developing empathy, just cites anecdotes of empathetic triumphs and comments on expanding them. I was struck by the title, the war for kindness. If we have to fight a war for kindness, we may have already lost.

I’ve had three beefs with theology over the years. First, theology seems to be more divisive than harmonizing. For some religious, being right Is more important than doing good, being right is doing good. Second, it is somewhat presumptive for mortals to define the Divine and a lot presumptive to impose their definition on others. Third, much theology seems to be written to impress other theologians, rather than to clearly and usefully address the laity.

A 2003 book by Nevada Barr, “Seeking Enlightenment Hat by Hat: A Skeptics Path to Religion,” is a wonderful example of a lay book inspiring and useful for many, especially women, the antithesis of theology for theologians.

I believe everyone should have a general appreciation of what is greater than he or she is and how our relationships with that greatness shape our behaviors. I’m not sure evaluating everything against one’s own experience is always healthy, the wisdom of the Axial Age notwithstanding.

If we could outlaw theology or the politicization of theology to prevent it being used as a valid defense for abusing, demeaning, isolating, and destroying others, that would be a good thing. Focusing on one’s own conduct, as in trying to live by the Golden Rule, would be even better and a wonderful legacy of the Axial Age.

Don Heacox can be reached at frheacox@gmail.com.

Read or Share this story: https://www.demingheadlight.com/story/opinion/2020/01/30/inside-out-should-theology-outlawed/4614637002/