Editor: Sandy Zhu

Farewell on Yingfeng Mountain Author: Zhang Ni Publishing House: Sichuan People's Publishing House Publishing Time: December 2018 Zhanguo Red Agate Author: Teng Zhenfu Publishing House: Chunfeng Literature & Art Publishing House Publishing Time: March 2019

More and more Chinese writers are writing the extraordinary stories of their country's fight against poverty.

If Zhang Ni had never visited the poverty-stricken areas in Southwest China's Sichuan Province and witnessed their actual changes, she could never have imagined that she would write the novel Farewell on Yingfeng Mountain.

"The visits to the poverty-stricken areas made 'poverty alleviation' no longer just a phrase," Zhang said. "The real life (of the people) in the areas stimulated the inspiration of writing works through the visits."

Zhang witnessed the great improvement in the living conditions of impoverished households, the meticulous work of poverty-alleviation officials and workers, and the input of resources from all aspects of society. Her story characters are all based on prototypes in real life.

The abundance of social realities gives writers rich materials, inspiration and motivation of writing works, and also ignites their passion for faithfully documenting the touching details of poverty alleviation work.

Lao Teng, in the novel Zhanguo Red Agate, writes about the poverty-alleviation efforts of three officials in Liucheng, a small village in the western region of Northeast China's Liaoning Province. The novel focused on the ways of resolving disputes during the poverty relief process and the villagers' changes of thought.

Transformation of ideas within poverty-stricken households is at the heart of the novel, said Lao Teng. "The novel highlights growth of young people through poverty-alleviation work and the change within people."

It is particular important for impoverished people to increase confidence in their own ability to lift themselves out of poverty. .

The Chinese Writers Association has done a lot in this respect, promoting the role of literature in helping people get rid of poverty.

On May 21, 2019, the association held a literary lecture given by famous writers Ye Mei and Yi Zhou in Zhaotong City, Southwest China's Yunnan Province, as part of its Open Literature Class brand event.

"Holding a public class in Zhaotong, a city with a large population of impoverished people, gives local people the opportunity to meet famous writers, which will ignite the literary dreams in their hearts," said Li Xiaoming, Director of the Social Liaison Department of the CWA.

In addition, with writers' support, grassroots literary organizations have been established in some poverty-stricken areas.

In Lintan, a poverty-stricken county assisted by the association in the Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, literary and cultural training activities have been offered, giving full play to the role of literature in poverty-alleviation work.

Since 2017, Sichuan has been working on poverty relief through capital input, book donation, and literary creation activities. More than 890 literary works themed on poverty reduction, including publications and articles, have been published, said Hou Zhiming, Secretary of the Leading Party Members' Group of the Sichuan Writers Association.

(Source: China Youth/Translated and edited by Women of China)