Posted Saturday, February 8, 2020 8:02 am

U.S. Senate Republican candidate Jeff Sessions told Walker County Republicans Thursday night in Jasper that he wants to support President Trump's agenda on immigration and trade - issues that Session said he fought on earlier when he was in the Senate.

"The people of Alabama are not happy. They want changes in Washington," he said. "They are proud of what is going on with President Trump and the agenda he's advancing. It was my agenda. I was the lead one to say that we cannot have an amnesty bill that doesn't have enforcement. All you are going to do is attract more illegal aliens."

Sessions was added at the last minute to a list of speakers for the last Walker County Republican Party meeting at Bevill State Community College before the March 3 primaries. One opponent, Tommy Tuberville, came the next day to Jasper for a lunch gathering.

About 60 people, including many county leaders, crowded into the Bevill State Community College cafeteria.

The former U.S. senator and U.S. attorney general, who was warmly greeted by the crowd, noted past visits to Walker County and the growth of the local party. He also noted the growth and improvements of Bevill State Community College, including its job training components.

"Under the Trump economy, we are booming," Sessions said. "Every area of the state. Businesses in Mobile, Troy, Cullman, everywhere." He said workers are being sought "and we need to get those workers ready to take those jobs. I really think there is nothing more important about it. I'm hearing it all over. It's always something I've believed in."

He said efforts need to be made to help some get jobs right out of high school, noting Airbus in Mobile takes 25 high school graduates a year, training them so they can earn $35,000 annually.

Noting his 20 years as a U.S. senator, Sessions, who grew up in south Alabama, said he tried to be faithful with commitments "to carry out the values of Alabama." He said he grew up with those values, adding he had 30 in his high school class and grew up in a 900-square-foot home with no central air conditioning.

In the Senate, he said he tried to protect financial interests, meet infrastructure needs, and protecting businesses - indicating he worked to protect coal mines from being shut down.

In siding with Trump's immigration efforts, Sessions said the nation admits 1.1 million people a year to legal permanent residency in the U.S. "We can't have another million come in illegally, involved in a lot of criminality and dangerous circumstances."

Session said he led three major battles on the issue and won each time, and that Trump came in to say something should be done by building a wall.

He also said the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) hurt many U.S. businesses.

"President Trump said it was a terrible deal," Sessions said. "I was with him on the campaign trail. He said, 'This is the worst trade deal ever. Who are these people who agreed to this thing. We're going to end it.'

"Well, nobody was even talking about that. Everybody had sort of given up. Sure enough, he eliminated NAFTA and did a new trade deal that the experts say will add 176,000 jobs, 28,000 automobile jobs, mostly automobile supply companies. It is going to be good. One person said it could add 1.1 GDP growth to the country."

Session said Trump also began to talk about a foreign policy issue Sessions eventually came to rethink from past positions.

"I was a big supporter of President Bush, of the men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan," he said, but noted Americans started asking if the effort in that region has gone as well as promised, and if countries in the Middle East can be remade in the American image.

He said that has not happened, and President Trump has raised the issue, and Americans are saying the nation needs to be careful where troops are placed. They are also concerned about trillions of dollars when their are infrastructure and other needs.

"I think it is a good thing to ask," he said, saying later, "I feel like, I had already begun to question the success of some of the things" tried in the past, asking the military - which he praised in quality - to "do things that were not realistic" in remaking nations.

He noted cuts in regulations and taxes under Trump. "We pulled out all kinds of regulations that the Department of Justice had issued," he said. "We defended religious freedom" under Trump's orders, and under him Justice wrote new regulations and orders he said the crowd would be proud of.

"People have a right to freely exercise their religious beliefs," Sessions said. "And it is free speech, too."

Session said while as attorney general, Justice took the side of a cake baker in Colorado who was "forced into a religious expression he didn't believe in" (denying service to a LGBTQ couple) and an anti-abortion group being told by the State of California to put up a sign telling where to get an abortion. Both cases were won in the U.S. Supreme Court.

As to why he feels he can help in the Senate, "I don't think enough of our Republican members of Congress and a lot of my Senate friends feel deeply enough or passionate enough or fully understand the importance of protecting American manufacturing, and not allowing our country to be taken advantage of by foreign countries. They need to be more out front on this, supporting the president's agenda. I was."

The Trans Pacific Partnership trade agreement got 70 Senate votes - including many Republicans - to fast track it, he said. "I was about the only one who opposed it," he said, noting then-President Obama favored it. Sessions said Trump opposed it, and then Hillary Clinton "got scared and she opposed it," so the bill was never brought up in the House.

Sessions said some are not helping the president enough on building a wall at the Mexican border.

"We have the neo cons who still like to do more than I think we need to be doing abroad," and having a more cautious foreign policy, he said.

He said he is well known with Washington groups working to contain immigration and pushing back against China on unfair trading practices.

"I just feel I have an opportunity to do something good for the state," he said.

Sessions said under Trump the country is headed in the right direction and he believes Trump will be re-elected, noting his poll numbers are up. "I think we can help him achieve an agenda that is Alabama's agenda," he said.

He said U.S. Sen. Doug Jones, a Democrat currently holding the seat, has revealed about himself by voting against Brett Kavanaugh for the Supreme Court and then vote for conviction and removal of the president, "the man who swept Alabama with a super majority, on charges that were no where close to sufficient to impeach a president of the United States. That was an abuse of the impeachment power - a grave, grave error by (House Speaker) Nancy Pelosi and the Congress. Impeachment is not for somebody that you are mad with."

In saying that crimes were not used in the impeachment charges, he said then-President Bill Clinton was impeached with "three crimes, two perjuries and an obstruction of justice, and as a prosecutor I'm telling you he could be convicted on all of them," but was not.

He criticized Jones for being a "foot soldier" for Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. He said if Democrats get control of the Senate, Schumer would replace Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Sen. Richard Shelby of Alabama would lose his chairmanship on the Appropriations Committee. He said it would be a "nightmare" in trying to confirm "great" judges.

"We don't need to take a chance. This man (Jones) has got to go," he said.

Sessions said if he goes back into the Senate, "I'm not going back to be a potted plant. It's not a retirement plan. I'm going up there for one reason: Because I think I might be able at this time to help this agenda that we believe in go further than it might otherwise go." He noted they know he battled hard over trade and immigration, although he said he gets along with other senators.

"This is no little matter. We need to get this done now. If we don't get the wall fixed in the next two or three years, we may never get it. I'm telling you," he said.

He also said the U.S. can come out well in trade negotiations with China, saying China needs the U.S. more than the U.S. needs them.

"They have a $500 billion manufacturing surplus with the U.S. They hire their workers to ship stuff to us and close our factories and lay off our workers," he said. "But we can buy products from all over the world. We don't have to buy them from China. We can even make them here."

He also said strategically China doesn't need to rise faster than if a level playing field existed on trade, adding China is becoming a larger threat each year to the peace of the world.