© Kyodo Mainland China’s state media said “external dark forces” played a part in the election result in Taiwan. Photo: Kyodo

Wang rails against Taiwan’s decision to re-elect pro-independence Tsai Ing-Wen as president, while state media claims ‘external dark forces’ had part in result

Tsai says Taiwan wants partnership with its neighbours

Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said Taiwan’s reunification with mainland China was inevitable and, in a rebuke against Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-Wen’s landslide re-election, that separatists would “stink for 10,000 years”.

Tsai, of the pro-independence Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), riding a wave of weariness with Beijing’s intentions following Hong Kong’s months-long pro-democracy protests, won about 57 per cent of the popular vote at the weekend.

Her victory over the Kuomintang’s mainland-friendly Han Kuo-yu has been interpreted as a message to Beijing and its intensifying efforts to isolate Taiwan on economic and diplomatic fronts.

Wang, in Zimbabwe as part of his African tour, said on Monday that Tsai’s win would not change what he called the inevitable course of Taiwan’s reunification with the mainland.

© EPA-EFE Wang says Tsai’s win will not change the inevitable course of Taiwan’s reunification with the mainland. Photo: EPA-EFE

“[The one-China principle] would not change in any way because of a local election on the Taiwan island, nor will it shake despite erroneous words and actions by some Western politicians,” Wang said.

Beijing regards the self-governing Taiwan as part of its territory that must eventually be reunited with the mainland – by force if necessary.

Wang protested as senior officials from the US, Britain and Japan congratulated Tsai on her victory, urging the international community to stick to one-China and refrain from official communications with the Taiwanese leadership.

“The rejuvenation of the Chinese nation and the reunification across the [Taiwan] strait is inevitable. Going against the trend is bound to reach a dead end. Anyone separating the nation will stink for 10,000 years,” he said.

In her victory speech on Saturday, Tsai said Beijing must abandon threats of force against Taiwan. The island would not give in to intimidation, she said.

Hinting that she would not seek to provoke mainland China in the next four years, Tsai said Taiwan wanted to become “partners” with its neighbours, not be an “issue” for them.

Tsai met de facto US and Japanese envoys in Taipei on Sunday.

Mainland Chinese state media played down Tsai’s landslide victory that day and blamed the Kuomintang’s defeat on “dirty tactics” by her party.

Xinhua said the poll was not a “normal election” and that “external dark forces” were partly responsible for the result.

Analysts said Taiwan may face increased pressure from Beijing after the election, complicating China’s tense relationship with the United States.

But the relationships between China, the US and Taiwan would also depend upon the outcome of the US presidential election in November and progress in trade talks between Beijing and Washington, they said.

Sign up now for our 50% early bird offer from SCMP Research: China AI Report. The all new SCMP China AI Report gives you exclusive first-hand insights and analysis into the latest industry developments, and actionable and objective intelligence about China AI that you should be equipped with.

More Articles from SCMP

Tokyo 2020 might see no Chinese men’s teams after volleyball and football failures

Jimmy Ting chases more Happy Valley success after being forced to watch his first treble on TV

Czech president to skip Beijing summit over China ‘investment letdown’

Hong Kong protests: High Court test for warrants that let police search phones

Demetrious Johnson on One Championship title shot, and why Israel Adesanya is his fighter of the year

This article originally appeared on the South China Morning Post (SCMP), the leading news media reporting on China and Asia. For more SCMP stories, please download our mobile app, follow us on Twitter, and like us on Facebook.

Copyright (c) 2020. South China Morning Post Publishers Ltd. All rights reserved.