POLITICO London Playbook: Trump’s grump — Irish festival of democracy — Becky does breakfast

Press play to listen to this article Voiced by Amazon Polly

What’s driving the day in Westminster. Politics and policymaking in the UK capital.

By ANNABELLE DICKSON

Send tips here | Subscribe for free | Listen to Playbook and view in your browser

Good Friday morning. This is Annabelle Dickson.

DRIVING THE DAY

TRUMP’S GRUMP: Boris Johnson’s special relationship with Donald Trump is under pressure today amid reports the U.S. president was “apoplectic” with fury over the prime minister’s decision to allow Huawei into non-core parts of the U.K.’s 5G network. British officials claim they were “taken aback by the force of the president’s language” toward the PM in a call last week following the U.K.’s Huawei announcement. Seb Payne and Katrina Manson got the scoop, and it is the Financial Times splash this morning.

Not got away with it: Ministers and senior officials had been patting themselves on the back over what had appeared to be a great diplomatic triumph for the PM. More than one senior government figure has boasted to Playbook this week of Trump and the PM’s great relationship, citing it as a good sign of the U.K.’s ability to forge its own path post-Brexit. While there has been little sign of any concrete repercussions from across the Atlantic thus far, and Trump has been uncharacteristically quiet about the whole issue publicly, today’s story is a reminder the PM’s personality may only take him so far on the world stage.

Nothing to see here: Downing Street moved swiftly to play down the story last night. A No. 10 source told the Guardian the account was overblown and they “did not recognize that characterization of the call.” Let’s hope Trump breaks his Huawei Twitter silence soon to clear things up.

Boris’ travel ban: The PM’s anticipated trip to Washington this month to talk trade with Trump has been postponed to March at the earliest, “and may be pushed back still further,” according to the Sun. It appears not to be related to the alleged hairdryer treatment from Trump last week though. Tom Newton Dunn hears the PM has ordered his travel plans to be kept to a minimum this year, so he can focus on his domestic agenda.

Meanwhile in Washington: Nigel Farage is not so reticent about crossing the Atlantic. The Brexit Party leader announced he had been hanging out with the U.S. president in the Oval Office yesterday. “Good to see the bust of Winston Churchill, there should be great things ahead for our two countries,” he tweeted post-meeting last night.

No official man or woman in Washington: It is worth noting that throughout all these transatlantic diplomatic hurdles, the PM still hasn’t appointed a new ambassador to Washington. The hotly anticipated signing is expected to be announced within weeks.

Fox in the house: Forget warnings from parliament’s Huawei hawks that letting the Chinese supplier into the U.K. network would be like letting a metaphorical fox into the hen house — there was a real fox on the loose in parliament last night. The stray animal managed to find its way into Portcullis House. It was eventually captured by police and released into Parliament Square. H/t to the Sun’s Kate Ferguson, who kept “Fox News” rolling on Twitter throughout the drama.

Boris’ other bromance blow: The Irish go to the polls on Saturday and things are not looking good for Boris’ big pal Taoiseach Leo Varadkar, with his Fine Gael party trailing third in the polls. POLITICO’s Naomi O’Leary has more on that here, and POLITICO’s Poll of Polls here. Playbook caught up with Irish Times London Editor Denis Staunton this week, and he sets the scene for Saturday’s election further down today’s email.

MEANWHILE, IN BREXIT

MOVE WITH EU: MEPs are pushing for the U.K. to follow European Union rules on employment, environment and competition law as they change as a price for keeping trade free, the Guardian reports. The paper has seen proposals in a leaked copy of a draft resolution from the European Parliament’s newly formed EU-U.K. coordination group.

LEGALLY BINDING: Farming bosses are also keen to tie the PM’s hands, fearing the government will trade away British food standards in Brexit trade talks. “At the moment, there is no reassurance outside of verbal guarantees that we’ve been given. We’ve asked for legal safeguards on U.K. standards and production,” Nick von Westenholz, the NFU’s Brexit director, told Business Insider.

BREXIT COMEDY: If you haven’t heard enough divorce jokes over the past three and a half years, the UK in a Changing Europe think tank is holding a Brexit comedy event tonight at 7 p.m. It features the BBC’s Nish Kumar, author and co-creator of The Bugle podcast Andy Zaltzman and Guardian columnist Marina Hyde. More details here.

** Happening this weekend: the African Union summit in Addis Ababa. POLITICO will be on the ground with a special edition Playbook bringing you insight from summit. Don’t miss out — sign up today.**

TODAY IN WESTMINSTER

PARLIAMENT: The House of Commons is not sitting, but Lords are in today from 10 a.m. They will debate the Domestic Premises (Energy Performance) Bill, the Extension of Franchise (House of Lords) Bill and the Access to Palliative Care and Treatment of Children Bill, which all have their second readings.

BEGUM’S BIG MOMENT: The Special Immigration Appeals Commission Tribunal will rule this morning on whether Shamima Begum, the east London schoolgirl who traveled to Syria to join Islamic State, has been successful in appealing moves to strip her of her British citizenship.

BECKY DOES BREAKFAST: Rebecca Long-Bailey is on the BBC Breakfast sofa just after 8.30 a.m. this morning. She also has a campaign event in Sheffield at 7 p.m. this evening.

Milestone: Labour’s only MP in Scotland Ian Murray made it onto the deputy leadership ballot paper last night after securing enough CLP support. The excellent CLP Nominations Twitter account broke the news.

Sign of the times: The selection of former Labour Minister Liam Byrne (of “there is no money” fame) as Labour’s West Midlands mayoral candidate “could be a big deal for Labour’s hopes of recovering from its general election thrashing,” HuffPost’s Paul Waugh writes. Momentum and Unite, who have had a strong hold on the party under the Corbyn regime, backed Salma Yaqoob, who came in third place. “That doesn’t bode well for their combined strength in the coming leadership election, where Keir Starmer is (like Byrne) uniting a combination of soft left, center-left and left votes,”‌ Waugh says.

Date for the diary: Sky’s Sophy Ridge will host Labour leadership hustings on Thursday, February 27 in Dewsbury, the broadcaster announced yesterday.

POVERTY WARNING: Lots of coverage in the papers this morning of the Joseph Rowntree Foundation’s latest report, which says the proportion of people with a job who live in poverty went up for the third consecutive year in 2018 to a record high. The Guardian has a write-up.

HUNT INQUIRY CALL: Former health secretary turned select committee Chairman Jeremy Hunt has called for an independent inquiry into maternity safety across the NHS in the wake of a string of hospital scandals, in an interview with the Independent. It follows a spate of truly horrific maternity scandals, which the Independent has been tenaciously leading the charge in exposing and reporting.

LOBBY LOVE: The PM’s sister Rachel Johnson has come out fighting for the lobby, telling Sky’s the Pledge that the government should not “cherry pick” to allow access only to those they like. She urged “the executive” (i.e. her big bro) to “chill out” and put itself up to wider scrutiny once more. The next Johnson family gathering should be fun after the PM’s dad Stanley’s embarrassing freelance diplomacy with the Chinese ambassador this week.

Love for Today: And in another boost to the journalists battling with No. 10, Justice Secretary Robert Buckland came out fighting for the Today program on Question Time last night. “I love the Today program. Radio Four has been my radio channel of choice for about thirty years. I relish scrutiny,” he said. A bold declaration in the current climate with the reshuffle edging closer.

TOASTIE TROUBLE: Michael Morris, aka Lord Naseby, has taken drastic action to find out if toasties and plated salads are going to be reintroduced into one of the House of Lords bars. He has tabled two parliamentary questions, a device more commonly used to probe the government on big issues of the day such as the performance of public services, to ascertain the senior deputy speaker’s thinking on the Bishop’s Bar menu. Playbook awaits the answer with bated breath.

SHOULDER-GATE LATEST: The off-the-shoulder dress worn by Labour MP Tracy Brabin in the Commons, which caused an astounding backlash on social media, is being auctioned off for charity on eBay. Brabin claims the dress has now sold out on ASOS following the furor around her attire. The BBC has a write-up.

SCOTTISH FARMERS MEET-UP: The Scottish government’s Cabinet Secretary for the Rural Economy Fergus Ewing will speak at NFU Scotland’s AGM at 11.15 a.m.

BERCOW’S BULLYING ROW: Former clerk of the House of Commons Robert Rogers (now Lord Lisvane) has set out the details of inappropriate remarks made by former Speaker John Bercow in a complaint submitted to the commissioner for standards, according to the Telegraph. It comes after Bercow was given an extraordinary public dressing down by the House of Commons yesterday over naming staff in his biography.

Legal action: The Times reckons new Speaker Lindsay Hoyle “is prepared to take legal action if parliamentary staff named in the book wish him to do so” and his counsel “is reading the book and will examine potential legal avenues.”

**A new guard is taking over in Brussels, and its priority is to secure Europe’s place in the global economic hierarchy. As geopolitical uncertainty in traditional partners mounts, the EU is under pressure to come up with a coordinated policy response, including a new Industrial Strategy. POLITICO Pro’s new industrial policy coverage will be following it all. Sign up for early access.**

MEDIA ROUND

Housing Minister Robert Jenrick media round: Sky (7.30 a.m.) … LBC (7.50 a.m.) … TalkRADIO (8.05 a.m.) … ITV (8.30 a.m.) … BBC Radio 1 Newsbeat (8.45 a.m.).

Today program: Former Cabinet Minister Owen Paterson (7.10 a.m.) … Tory MP Lee Anderson (7.50 a.m.).

Also on BBC Breakfast: Learning Disability England’s Jayne Knight (7.10 a.m.) … Labour leadership candidate Rebecca Long-Bailey (8.35 a.m.).

Nick Ferrari at Breakfast (LBC Radio): Former White House Director of Communications Anthony Scaramucci (7.05 a.m.) … Professor of Emerging Viruses from the University of Nottingham Jonathan Ball (7.20 a.m.) … Former Director General of the U.K. Border Force Tony Smith … Founder of Care4Calais Claire Moseley (8.05 a.m.) … Former Scottish Conservative Party leader Ruth Davidson (8.50 a.m.).

Also on Julia Hartley-Brewer (TalkRADIO): Scottish Sun Editor Alan Muir (7.20 a.m.).

Politics Live (BBC2, noon): The FT’s Seb Payne … Demos’ Polly Mackenzie … Labour activist Lauren Townsend … Tory campaigner Tosin Adedayo.

Any Questions? (BBC Radio 4, 8 p.m.): Chair of the Committee on Climate Change John Gummer, now Lord Deben … the Centre for English Identity and Politics’ John Denham … Guardian columnist Owen Jones … Sun journalist Olivia Utley.

Reviewing the papers tonight: BBC News (10.40 p.m. & 11.30 p.m.): The Telegraph’s Claire Cohen … City AM’s Rachel Cunliffe … Sky News (10.30 p.m. & 11.30 p.m.): The Mirror’s Susie Boniface … commentator Darren Grimes.

TODAY’S FRONT PAGES

(Click on the publication’s name to see its front page.)

City AM: Tweet dreams are made of this

Daily Mail: I’ll push someone off … they will die.

Daily Express: Andrew refuses honor for sake of the queen.

Daily Mirror: IRA’s Brexit plot to bomb ferry.

The Financial Times: “Apoplectic” ⁦Trump⁩ vented fury at U.K. leader for Huawei decision.

HuffPost UK: There are nearly 30,000 coronavirus cases.

i: U.K. virus alert raised.

Metro: Virus Brit got bug in Singapore.

The Daily Telegraph: Public has given up on police, says watchdog.

The Guardian: Coronavirus fears rise as first Briton tests positive.

The Independent: Hunt calls for inquiry into NHS maternity care.

The Sun (not online): Lewd women.



The Times: Failing police “rumbled” by weary public.

TODAY’S NEW MAGS

The Economist: State of the Democrats.

BEYOND THE M25

From Scotland

DEREK DAY 2: The Scottish government tried to prevent the Scottish Sun from publishing revelations about Derek Mackay, who resigned yesterday after sending unwanted messages to a schoolboy, the paper reveals this morning. Attempts to thwart publication included “demanding to know the name of the 16-year-old schoolboy as well as asking for the paper’s ‘justification for publication, given the intrusion into private and family life, and correspondence including digital communication.'” Meanwhile the Daily Record splashes this morning on claims from a married SNP activist that Mackay asked for “naughty pics” and bombarded him with messages for years.

From Australia

VISITING THE BUSHFIRES: Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab and Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne will travel to the New South Wales Rural Fire Service headquarters today to meet those involved in the response to the bushfires. The BBC reports this morning that torrential rain across the east coast of Australia has put out a third of the fires in the region.

THANK POD IT’S FRIDAY

(Click on the links to listen.)

Acting Prime Minister: ITV’s Paul Brand speaks to Lib Dem MP Layla Moran.

Americast: BBC journalists Emily Maitlis and Jon Sopel launched their podcast from the campaign trail of the 2020 U.S. presidential election race this week.

Beyond the Bubble: MP Guy Opperman speaks to new Tory MPs Dehenna Davison, Jacob Young and Siobhan Baillie.

Brexit Breakdown: UK in a Changing Europe’s Sarah Hall, David Bailey and Katy Hayward discuss the future of the U.K. manufacturing industry.

Choppers Brexit Podcast: The Telegraph’s Chris Hope speaks to former International Trade Secretary Liam Fox, West Midlands Mayor Andy Street and author Garrett Jones.

Commons People: The HuffPost team speak to UK in a Changing Europe’s Anand Menon.

The Edition: The Spectator talks to Quilliam’s Haras Rafiq and former vice chair of Democrats Abroad UK, Karin Robinson.

Encompass: Paul Adamson speaks to MEP Eva Maydell.

EU Confidential: POLITICO speaks to the European Commission’s Executive Vice President for Digital Margrethe Vestager.

Politics: Where Next? Gary Gibbon talks to the Irish Times’ Denis Staunton and the New Statesman’s Patrick Maguire.

Women with Balls: Katy Balls speaks to former Labour Party adviser, comedian and Evening Standard diarist Ayesha Hazarika.

YOUR WEEKEND IN POLITICS

WEEKEND SHOWS LOOK-AHEAD: Sky’s Sophy Ridge (Sky News, 8.30 a.m.) will be speaking to Labour deputy leadership candidate Dawn Butler and former Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt. No news yet on guests for the BBC’s Andrew Marr Show (BBC 1, 9 a.m. on Sunday) or Pienaar’s Politics, which is back on air again this week (BBC Radio 5 Live, 9 a.m.).

On Westminster Hour (BBC Radio 4, 10 p.m. on Sunday): Tory MP Nickie Aiken, Labour MP Lloyd Russell-Moyle, Demos’ Polly Mackenzie and Playbook’s own Jack Blanchard.

LABOUR HUSTINGS: Labour leadership and deputy leadership hustings, hosted by the Local Government Association, will be held in Nottingham on Saturday. The leadership candidates will be on stage at 11 a.m. Deputy leadership candidate hustings begin at 1.30 p.m.

OUT OF AFRICA: POLITICO has a special pop-up Playbook from the African Union summit in Addis Ababa. Due in you inboxes on Sunday and Monday. It comes as POLITICO launches a series of stories and Playbooks about Europe and Africa. You can sign up to the special Playbook here.

CLIMATE CONVERSATION: The second meeting of Climate Assembly U.K. will continue in Birmingham over weekend.

MCDONNELL SPEECH: Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell is due to speak at Labour’s north west regional conference in Southport on Saturday at 11.15 a.m.

HOW TO FOLLOW THE IRISH ELECTION

TO THE POLLS: The U.K.’s nearest neighbor Ireland goes to the polls on Saturday in what looks set to be a knife-edge election. Playbook caught up with Denis Staunton, the London editor of the Irish Times, who set the scene ahead of this weekend’s Irish festival of democracy.

What the polls are saying: “The latest opinion poll from the Irish Times shows the three big parties all bunched up quite close to each other with Sinn Féin on 25 percent, Fianna Fáil on 23 percent and Fine Gael, which is Leo Varadkar’s party, on 20 percent,” Staunton says. Sinn Féin’s ability to win seats is limited — the party is only standing 42 candidates for the 159-member assembly, compared with 84 running for Fianna Fáil and 82 for Fine Gael.

The Sinn Féin surge: A jump in support in the polls for Sinn Féin has been a surprise to everyone, including the party itself, according to Staunton. President Mary-Lou McDonald and one or two others “have been presenting this very clear message on issues that really matter to people in Ireland. Health and housing. Like many health services in the Western world, there’s always a health crisis going on and Sinn Féin is promising to spend more on the health service than the other parties. And then there’s a big problem with housing in Ireland because the population has been increasing … people can’t afford to buy a house, but rents are so high they can’t afford to save either. [Sinn Féin] are presenting a more radical solution involving much more spending than the other parties, and it seems to have worked for them.”

View from London: “I think there’s been a lot of surprise here that things haven’t worked out so well for [Varadkar],” Staunton tells Playbook. “The big issue for Ireland over the last couple of years, which has been Brexit, how to manage the consequences of Brexit for Ireland — that doesn’t seem to have played any role at all in the campaign, and people have just gone back to really concerns of a domestic nature.”

Ireland’s transformation: “I think people [in London] perceive Leo Varadkar as having been a rather successful politician,” Staunton adds. “He did have a very successful Brexit, and he did also seem to represent the changes that have happened in Ireland — the fact that he is of partly Indian heritage, the fact he is openly gay — that seemed to reflect the societal changes that Ireland is now a country of immigration rather than emigration, that we had these two important referendums on same sex marriage and on abortion rights.”

Bromance over? “From the point of view of the government here, after a very difficult relationship between Leo Varadkar and Theresa May, [Varadkar] and Boris Johnson have established rather a good one, so in that sense it would be easier for Downing Street if he stayed, but it doesn’t look likely that he will at this stage.”

That said: “Any outcome which doesn’t involve Sinn Féin is probably the status quo where British-Irish relations are concerned. But if Sinn Féin are in government, then things would change.”

It’s unlikely … but: “Both the other parties, Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael, have ruled out going into government with Sinn Féin in any way, or even accepting their support in a conference-and-supply arrangement. But these things can change once the numbers stack up.”

Border poll demand: “What [Sinn Féin] is demanding is that there should be a border poll on Irish unification. They should press for that within a year. Now that’s not in the gift of the Irish government according to the Good Friday Agreement. But still, it would change the dynamic,” Staunton says. And because Sinn Féin is linking Brexit to Irish unity, unionists in Northern Ireland could also feel more threatened, after “already feeling uneasy about the Brexit deal because it creates an economic border in the Irish Sea, and they feel that’s propelling them into an economically united Ireland.”

Key timings this weekend: “The polls close at 10 o’clock and there’s an exit poll for the Irish Times and RTE the broadcaster at 10 o’clock. And then they don’t start counting until the day after — until Sunday.”

When will we know the result? “They keep counting during the day and you normally have a pretty good idea by the afternoon as to how things are going, but then you get into these tiny margins and have lots of recounts and sometimes that goes on into the following day.”

How the voting works: “What you have is these multi-seat constituencies, so a constituency can have three, four or five seats within it. You rank the candidates in order of preference. It’s a very enjoyable way of voting because you can go all the way down and decide not only who you like most, but also who you like least.”

Preferences are important: “What’s important in getting elected is not just having a lot of people liking you. But you also need to make sure that not too many people dislike you. That’s something where Sinn Féin have traditionally not done very well. Even when they’ve been good at getting first preference votes, people who vote for other parties have tended not to transfer immediately to them in their second and third preferences.”

Talk to the tallymen: “There are big long tables [at the counts], and standing behind a sort of a perimeter around them are what are called tallymen. These are volunteers from each of the political parties. They’re watching the votes as they come in. They’re tick tick tick ticking away, watching all of this happening. And they also cooperate with one another, even though they’ve been fighting each other during the campaign. They tend to have a very good prediction quite early on in the count.”

Then talks begin: “Once you have the result you then have to look at who can form a government. You need 80 for a majority. If [Fianna Fáil] got, say, in the high 50s, if they did very well, there’s a chance they’d be able to put together a coalition with smaller parties. That’s one fairly straightforward option.”

But but but: “You could also have [a situation] where you can’t get anything together without the support of two or three of the big parties and since everybody said they’re not going to work with Sinn Féin, that then means that you either have a coalition between Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael, or you have what you have now, which is a confidence-and-supply arrangement, but this time maybe with Micheál Martin [leader of Fianna Fáil] as the Taoiseach rather than Leo Varadkar. But all of that takes weeks and weeks and weeks of negations and so in the meantime, Leo Varadkar carries on as Taoiseach.”

LONDON CALLING

Westminster weather: 😎😎😎 Lovely sunny day. Highs of 10C.

SCOOP — WITTIG ON THE MOVE: Playbook hears German Ambassador Peter Wittig is planning to leave the Germany embassy in London, and the German diplomatic service, in April, slightly earlier than planned. Wittig, formerly an envoy to Washington, is due to take up a fellowship at Harvard and will teach at Georgetown University in Washington. He will also work as a senior adviser to a leading German industrial company.

Spotted: Celebrating the launch of the 2020 Women in Journalism mentoring scheme with free-flowing wine and gin and tonics at the Irish embassy on Grosvenor Place were the Sunday Times’ Eleanor Mills … Christina Lamb … Rosamund Irwin … Katherine Forster … the Times’ Martha Gill … the FT’s Janine Gibson … the Sun’s Natasha Clark … the i’s Daisy Wyatt … the Daily Mail’s Claire Ellicott … the Express’s Sam Lister… the Observer’s Donna Ferguson … the BBC’s Sophia Smith Galer … Labour staffer Holly Higgins … and many more top female hacks.

Also in embassy land: Staffers from across the political divide piled into a hugely oversubscribed drinks reception hosted by Dutch Deputy Head of Mission Brechje Schwachofer at Hyde Park Gate. Playbook hears vast quantities of Heineken beer was consumed. Luckily for the staffers, most MPs will be in their constituencies today.

End of an era: Another Brexit correspondent is on the move. The Daily Telegraph’s James Rothwell has been made Middle-East correspondent. Brexit really is over. Rothwell’s tweet announcing the news is here.

Happy retirement: Red Lion landlord Colin George “hangs up his beer towel this week.” (H/t the Telegraph’s Chris Hope)

Happy birthday: Labour activist Eddie Izzard … Tory peer and Times columnist Viscount Matt Ridley … Campaign to Protect Rural England chief Crispin Truman … POLITICO tot (son of U.K. Editor Kate Day) Teo Elia turns one.

And celebrating over the weekend: Catholic Herald Editor Luke Coppen … World at One Presenter Sarah Montague … outgoing Northern Ireland Office Permanent Secretary Jonathan Stephens … Bath MP Wera Hobhouse … Crossbench peer Elspeth Howe.

PLAYBOOK COULDN’T HAPPEN WITHOUT: My editor Zoya Sheftalovich and producer Miriam Webber.

SUBSCRIBE to the POLITICO newsletter family: Brussels Playbook | London Playbook | EU Confidential | Sunday Crunch | EU Influence | AI: Decoded | D.C. Playbook | All our POLITICO Pro policy morning newsletters