Dr. Manny Sethi Applauds the President on Actions to Address The Coronavirus Epidemic

Nashville, TN – Today, Tuesday, February 4th, 2020, Republican Senate candidate and conservative outsider Dr. Manny Sethi applauded President Donald Trump on taking steps to protect Americans from the Coronavirus.

“Due to the incubation period of the novel Coronavirus (“Coronavirus”), it is wise of President Trump to stop most foreign nationals who have been to China in the past 14 days from traveling to the United States,” said Dr. Manny Sethi. “Health screenings of arriving passengers are another important step.”

The Coronavirus is another reminder of why we need to know who is coming into our country. Dr. Manny is grateful to our border control officers who continue to work hard to keep Americans safe.

Dr. Manny also called on China to own up to their failure to stop the virus.

“It amazes me that a corrupt, communist government can build a massive hospital in 10 days, but it takes them nearly a month to be open and honest about a virus that is killing people,” said Dr. Manny Sethi. “Instead, they would rather intimidate doctors who report what they are seeing.”

China has had multiple viruses develop in their country over past decades, which have led to global epidemics, but they have not made appropriate progress on sanitation, health and safety standards. The Chinese government’s irresponsibility threatens the lives of not only the over 1 billion Chinese citizens, but also people around the world.

Dr. Manny was interviewed on Fox Business on the Coronavirus:

About Dr. Manny Sethi

Dr. Manny Sethi is an orthopedic trauma surgeon and the founder of Healthy Tennessee, a nonprofit organization designed to promote preventative health care across the state. This organization has cared for thousands of patients in almost every county in Tennessee.

Raised in Coffee County, Dr. Manny received his undergraduate degree from Brown University. He then went on to receive his medical degree from Harvard Medical School. After college, as a Fulbright Scholar he worked in Tunisia with children suffering from muscular dystrophy. Dr. Manny returned home to Tennessee to impact change in healthcare and education.

He is the co-editor of An Introduction to Health Policy with Senator William Frist, MD, and author of The American Dream in Tennessee: Stories of Faith, Struggle, and Survival, a book about the power of faith, family, and community in the treatment of near-life-ending trauma.

He is married to Maya, and together they have two children. The family attends McKendree United Methodist Church in Nashville.

More information about Dr. Manny and his campaign can be found at DrMannyforSenate.com.