Add CoolSocial badge. Show it by adding this HTML code on your site:

Cheapchinajordans.net scored 41 Social Media Impact. Social Media Impact score is a measure of how much a site is popular on social networks. 2/5.0 Stars by Social Team

This CoolSocial report was updated on 31 Mar 2013, you can refresh this analysis whenever you want.

Add a widget like this on your site: click here

The total number of people who shared the cheapchinajordans homepage on Google Plus by a google +1 button. This is the sum of two values: the total number of people who shared the cheapchinajordans homepage on Twitter + the total number of cheapchinajordans followers (if cheapchinajordans has a Twitter account). This is the sum of two values: the total number of people who shared, liked or recommended the cheapchinajordans homepage on Facebook + the total number of page likes (if cheapchinajordans has a Facebook fan page). The total number of people who shared the cheapchinajordans homepage on StumbleUpon. The total number of people who shared the cheapchinajordans homepage on Delicious.

Basic Information

PAGE TITLE Cheap jordans outlet for sale with free shipping, jordans for cheap online from china DESCRIPTION Cheap jordans outlet for sale with free shipping, jordans for cheap online from china KEYWORDS cheap jordans, jordans for cheap, jordans free shipping OTHER KEYWORDS jordan, air jordan, nike air, air max, nike air max, 99 air jordan, 99 air



CoolSocial advanced keyword analysis tool is able to detect and analyze every keyword on each page of a site. The keywords meta-tag found in the head section of the homepage. The URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is the address of the site. The title found in the head section of the homepage. The description meta-tag found in the head section of the homepage.

Domain and Server

DOCTYPE XHTML 1.0 Strict CHARSET AND LANGUAGE English UTF-8English DETECTED LANGUAGE English English SERVER LiteSpeed OPERATIVE SYSTEM

The language of cheapchinajordans.net as detected by CoolSocial algorithms. Operative System running on the server. Represents HTML declared type (e.g.: XHTML 1.1, HTML 4.0, the new HTML 5.0) Character set and language of the site. Type of server and offered services.

Site Traffic trend during the last year. Only available for sites ranked <= 100000 in the world.

Referring domains for cheapchinajordans.net by MajesticSeo. High values are a sign of site importance over the web and on web engines.

Facebook link

FACEBOOK PAGE LINK NOT FOUND

Facebook Timeline is the new layout of Facebook pages. The type of Facebook page. A Facebook page link can be found in the homepage or in the robots.txt file. The description of the Facebook page describes website and its services to the social media users. The total number of people who like website Facebook page. The URL of the found Facebook page. The total number of people who tagged or talked about website Facebook page in the last 7-10 days.

Twitter account link

TWITTER PAGE LINK NOT FOUND