THE State Library is turning itself “inside out” and taking its collection to the people, as it becomes increasingly difficult to lure the public to the North Tce institution.

Attendance plummeted 18 per cent from 777,000 to 634,000 in 2014-15, the library’s annual report shows.

Visitor numbers have nearly halved from the record 1.187 million who passed through the doors in 2011-12.

The proportion of in-person visits fell from 41 per cent to 36 per cent last financial year, meaning two in every three users were online.

Online visits rose slightly to 1.127 million.

Director Alan Smith said the recently launched “story wall”, where stories from the collection are projected on to the library’s forecourt wall from sunset to midnight every night, was one of many ways the institution was seeking to increase engagement with the public.

“That’s part of my project of turning the library inside out,” Mr Smith said.

“We’re doing all we can do to make our collections more accessible than they have been in the past (because) less and less people are prepared to come in physically.”

Mr Smith said the library was “upping our exhibitions program considerably” and building on the success of its partnership with the State Theatre Company.

For the past two years, the library has staged events connected to every new production.

A State Theatre show dramatising the letters of family members of missing World War I soldiers to the South Australian Red Cross Information Bureau, from 1916 to 1919, will tour regional SA next year, Mr Smith said.

There are thousands of bureau documents in the library’s collection.

“That’s another way our collection is getting out to the broader public,” Mr Smith said.

The library held 92 community events attracting 18,000 people last financial year.

It recorded a loss of $182,000, despite a rise in bequests and donations.

Paris Sariri, 27, who immigrated from Iran with her husband a year ago, visits the library twice a week, mostly to work on job applications.

“I sometimes have a look at the magazines and books,” she said.

“There’s variety here that I haven’t seen in other libraries. The staff are so friendly.”

The library received 190 formal “compliments” on its services and 126 complaints, the annual report states.

More than 6.2 million views of the library’s historic newspaper content were recorded.

In the report, Mr Smith writes that one of the year’s highlights was an agreement with Shandong Provincial Library to help create a “one-card” system in the Chinese province similar to South Australia’s by 2020.

SA’s one-card system gives members of any public library access to items from all other libraries in the state.