President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa along with China’s Ambassador Cheng Xueyuan at the opening of the final phase of the Southern Expressway yesterday

222 km Southern Expressway now completely links Mattala Airport and Hambantota Harbour to commercial capital Colombo

Length of final extension commissioned from Palatuwa to Barawakumbuka was 58 km and costs Rs. 169 b

Four-phase E01 96 km expansion from Matara to Hambantota cost was Rs. 225 b

MR says Southern Expressway is for betterment of future generations

President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa yesterday inaugurated the final stage of Southern Expressway – the extension from Palatuwa to Barawakumbuka.

Now the Southern Expressway links the Mattala Airport and Hambantota Harbour to the commercial capital, Colombo. After opening the road near Godagama, Palatuwa interchange, the President and Prime Minister travelled on the Southern Expressway from Palatuwa to Barawakumbuka. The President and the Prime Minister were warmly greeted by the general public as they passed interchanges.

The length of the extension commissioned yesterday from Palatuwa to Barawakumbuka of the Southern Expressway was 58 km and it cost Rs. 169 billion.

The E01 from Matara to Hambantota is constructed under four phases: Matara – Beliatta, Beliatta – Barawakumbuka, Barawakumbuka – Andarawewa and Andarawewa – Mattala and were completed under the fourth stage and the cost was Rs. 225 billion.

The 222 km long Southern Expressway is the longest expressway in the country. With the opening of the new extension of the Southern Expressway, motorists will be able to travel to Kataragama from Colombo within three-and-a-half hours.

The existing Matara – Godagama interchange will no longer be used in the future and the new Palatuwa interchange will replaced it. After Godagama, there are interchanges at Aparekka, Beliatta, Kasagala, Angunakolapelessa, Barawakumbuka and Sooriyawewa.

Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa addressing the public rally held near the Barawakumbuka interchange said that the Government will start again the mega development projects abandoned by the previous Government. He further said that the national security will be ensured in the country in a similar manner as the Government constructs the expressways.

He also said that a Trade and Finance Centre will be built centering the Colombo Port and Katunayake International Airport. Steps have been taken to build an International Technical and Services Centre focusing the Hambantota Port and Mattala Airport, he added. Prime Minister Rajapaksa further said that the Government will take actions to create nine economic corridors that will include the Port of Trincomalee and the port at Kankesanthurai.

He further said that all these initiatives are mentioned in the ‘Rata Hadana Saubhagyaye Dekma’, the policy manifesto of the President Gotabaya Rajapaksa.

Ministers including Minister Chamal Rajapaksa and Minister Johnston Fernando, Members of Parliament including Namal Rajapaksa and D.V. Chanaka, public servants and a large number of people participated on this occasion.