What We Read Today 24 February 2020 Econintersect: Every day our editors collect the most interesting things they find from around the internet and present a summary "reading list" which will include very brief summaries (and sometimes longer ones) of why each item has gotten our attention. Suggestions from readers for "reading list" items are gratefully reviewed, although sometimes space limits the number included. This feature is published Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in the late afternoon New York time. For early morning review of headlines see "The Early Bird" published Monday through Friday in the early am at GEI News (membership not required for access to "The Early Bird".). BECOME A GEI MEMBER - IT's FREE! Most of this column ("What We Read Today") is available only to GEI members. To become a GEI Member simply subscribe to our FREE daily newsletter. . Topics today include 24 articles and 19 graphics: Is Coffee Good for You?

NASA reveals surreal photo of Earth from 4 billion miles away

In Photos: New Human Ancestor Possibly Unearthed in Spanish Cave

American Factory

A day-by-day breakdown of coronavirus symptoms shows how the disease, COVID-19, goes from bad to worse

Coronavirus cases surge in Italy, Iran, South Korea

Coronavirus Disease News 22February 2020

Coronavirus Economic News 22February 2020

Bernie Sanders' disastrous answer on '60 Minutes'

22 studies agree: 'Medicare for All' saves money

Projected costs of single-payer healthcare financing in the United States: A systematic review of economic analyses

Crackdown on immigrants who use public benefits takes effect

Harry Reid calls for end to all caucuses

Democrats view Sanders as having best shot to defeat Trump: poll

Sanders Rises as Primary Voters Grow More Confident About His Chances Against Trump

The Where, When and How of Quarrying Stonehenge 'Bluestones' Is Revealed in New Report

Benjamin Netanyahu's corruption trial will start two weeks after Israel's elections

U.S. wants Afghan president to postpone planned inauguration

Trump lands in India and feels the love

Tesla's cheap home batteries set to upend utility business

U.S. considering responses to China's 'egregious' expulsion of U.S. journalists

From one-time Chinese capital to coronavirus epicenter, Wuhan has a long history that the West had forgotten

Police in Panama found more than 5 tons of drugs in a homemade semi-submersible vessel

Chichen Itza's Shadows: Unexpected Light Shed on Ancient Maya

And More . This post continues but only for our Premium Content Subscribers. All newsletter subscribers are given access to the complete post. There are approximately 200 articles reviewed every week in the full post.

The rest of the post is for our newsletter subscribers. Newsletter subscribers can sign in [here] To subscribe to premium content is a no cost signup: Econintersect sends a nightly newsletter highlighting news events of the day, and providing a summary of new articles posted on the website. This newsletter contains links to complete posts (such as "What We Read Today") which are not available to other readers at the website. The newsletter is the key into membership at Econintersect. Econintersect will not sell or pass your email address to others per our privacy policy. You can cancel this subscription at any time by selecting the unsubscribing link in the footer of each email. Name: Email:



















Make a Comment Econintersect wants your comments, data and opinion on the articles posted. You can also comment using Facebook directly using he comment block below.



Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.



Facebook Comment Make a Comment Econintersect wants your comments, data and opinion on the articles posted. As the internet is a "war zone" of trolls, hackers and spammers - Econintersect must balance its defences against ease of commenting. We have joined with Livefyre to manage our comment streams.



To comment, just click the "Sign In" button at the top-left corner of the comment box below. You can create a commenting account using your favorite social network such as Twitter, Facebook, Google+, LinkedIn or Open ID - or open a Livefyre account using your email address.







