While several powerful nations, such as the United States, Russia and Turkey have been drawn into the ongoing multi-sided military conflict in Syria, China is advocating a different approach, announcing it is ready to play a constructive role in the restoration of peace in the war-torn nation, Xinhua reported.

“China stands ready to play a constructive role towards the early restoration of peace, stability and development in Syria,” Wu Haitao, China’s deputy permanent representative to the United Nations, told a Security Council meeting.

“China applauds the good offices of the special envoy (Geir Pedersen) and the constructive participation of the Syrian parties. We support the special envoy in stepping up the communication with the Syrian Government to listen to the government’s legitimate requests,” Wu said.

“All countries must combat terrorism in all its forms in accordance with relevant Council resolutions and international law, and by applying one single standard. Otherwise, Syria as well as the region of West Asia and North Africa will have no peace,” said Wu, who urged the international community to take action to improve Syria’s economic and humanitarian situation.

“It is essential to secure the conditions of survival for the Syrian people, lift unilateral sanctions and support post-conflict reconstruction,” the envoy noted, adding that civilians are directly harmed by sanctions. “The provision of humanitarian supplies by relevant parties should not come with any political preconditions.”

Concerning the approach towards the political process, Wu said that the UN should advance the Syrian political process in line with the Syrian-led and Syrian-owned principle and Council Resolution 2254, the report said.

“It is important to maintain the independence of the Syrian Constitutional Committee’s work so as to create conditions for bridging differences and building consensus among the Syrian parties,” he said.

“This process should not be subject to any external interference or arbitrary timelines.”

Wu called on all parties concerned to maintain political dialogue through the constitutional committee to “deepen mutual understanding and trust.”

“Syria should not be divided nor fragmented,” he noted.