China to deepen exchanges at Int’l level to fight terrorism

BEIJING: China will deepen mutual exchanges at international level to fight out terrorism to ensure peace and prosperity world over.

This was stated by the spokesperson of the Chinese Foreign Minister Geng Shuang while briefing the newsmen here on Thursday about the just concluded visit of State Councilor Wang Yi to Egypt.

During the visit, the two sides decided to fight terrorism and extremism together.

They also reached an agreement to deepen exchange in de-radicalization, enhance communication and coordination in international cooperation, and make new contributions to regional and global counter-terrorism cause. The spokesperson further said, Egypt was State Councilor Wang Yi's first stop during his visit to Africa this time, which shows how much they value China-Egypt relations.

During this visit, State Councilor Wang Yi met with President Abdul Fatah Al-Sisi and Prime Minister Mostafa Kemal Madbouly, had talks with Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry and held a new round of strategic dialogue between the two foreign ministries. The two sides reached important consensus during this successful visit.

It was decided to bring bilateral relations to a new height.

Under the guidance of Chinese and Egyptian leaders in recent years, bilateral relations have achieved leapfrog development, becoming an exemplar of South-South cooperation.

The two sides agreed to elevate the China-Egypt comprehensive strategic partnership to a higher level while working towards building a community with a shared future in a new era, and to make bilateral relations a pilot example for China-Africa and China-Arab communities with a shared future. Second, to deepen bilateral practical cooperation. it was noted that Belt and Road cooperation between China and Egypt has delivered fruitful outcomes.

The two sides will seek greater synergies between the BRI and Egypt's Vision 2030 and broaden all-round connectivity cooperation. A new inter-governmental cooperation committee will be set up to coordinate and advance cooperation, he added.