By Bella Chen

“Stories of the Sahara” is written by Sanmao, a famous Taiwanese woman author who was born Chen Mao Ping. The book sold 15 million copies in Chinese and Spanish, making it one of the bestsellers of all time. “Stories of the Sahara” has been described as a memoir travelogue, which inspired a generation.

Sanmao was born in China and later fled to Taiwan with her parents before the Communist revolutionary forces triumphed in 1949. In 1973, she crossed the oceans for love, following her fiancé Jose Maria Quero to the turbulent Spanish Sahara, where the Iberian government lived in uneasy coexistence with the Sahrawi Arab population. Eventually, she returned to Taiwan after her husband died in 1979. “Stories of the Sahara” was published in 1976, collecting 20 of her Chinese diaries illustrating her adventurous life in the desert.

For me, Sanmao was not a stranger. My mom used to tell me the stories about Sanmao’s life when I was little in Taiwan. In my mom’s stories, she described Sanmao as a brave and strong woman, who chased her dream and solved the problems she encountered. After all, this lady gave up her comfortable life to travel the world. In my mind, I pictured Sanmao as a heroic figure.

Even though I had only read a couple of chapters in the original Chinese version years ago, I was thrilled when I got to read her work in English. Reading a work in another language could be a completely different experience.

Instead of simply translating languages, translating a work is more like interpreting. When doing translation, each translator would have to understand the meaning of the original work to accurately convey it in another language. It could be challenging when the two languages don’t have the same cultural roots, like Chinese and English.

Some terms are not commonly used in English, which translators may cut. However, translator Mike Fu remains faithful to most of the Chinese terms. For example, Sanmao used the word “meal ticket” in “A desert diner” to describe Jose as the source of income for the family. However, in English, a meal ticket mostly indicates the ticket that you need to get food at an event. I felt keeping the literal meaning from the Chinese kept the authenticity of the narrative. But it could cause slight confusion for native English speakers.

“Stories of the Sahara” followed Sanmao’s daily life in the desert in the first person. The main characters are Sanmao herself and Jose, with supporting characters such as neighbors or grocery store owners. By looking through Sanmao’s lens, the readers could experience how Sanmao learned Sahrawi traditional rituals and habits.

In “Child bride,” Sanmao witnessed her neighbor’s 10-year-old daughter, Gueiga, getting married. She was shocked by the custom of violently taking away the bride’s virginity on the wedding day. Through her narrative, I felt like I was in the crowded room, seeing Gueiga dragged by her future husband. Her vivid prose conveyed the uneasiness of an outsider watching the suffocating process.

Some stories fulfilled people’s curiosity about desert living: Do people shower in the desert? In early chapters, Sanmao mentioned she had never seen a Sahrawi person shower. She was excited when she accidentally discovered the bathing place — a “hot spring” in “The desert bathing spectacle.” Readers follow her steps down to the basement bathing place. I could smell the mixture of heat and pungent smells, feel the sticky black mud wall, and rush out with Sanmao.

The intimate tone Sanmao sets made me feel immersed in the Sahara life. Her memoir shows her passion for life, which she lived out in the most marvelous way.

Please follow and like us:

This post is also available in: Chinese