Ms Berejiklian said she'd told NSW Rural Fire Service to "just do what you need to do and we'll pay the bill later".



Immediate Financial Support for Bushfire Affected Communities 9 January 2020 (See translation in Arabic section) In joint press release the Morrison Government said that will provide an initial and immediate base payment of $1 million to 42 of the most severely bushfire impacted councils in New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Queensland to help quickly rebuild vital infrastructure and strengthen community resilience. A further $18 million will be set aside to provide additional support to larger council areas which have experienced the most significant damage, with the National Bushfire Recovery Coordinator Andrew Colvin working with state governments and impacted local councils on determining this additional allocation. Prime Minister Scott Morrison said his Government was committed to working hand in hand with regional communities to rebuild towns and villages. “These payments will provide immediate assistance directly into the hands of local councils to rebuild roads and infrastructure, employ staff to help in recovery activities and hold events which bring the community together and bring tourists back to town,” the Prime Minister said. “We are moving immediately to support local councils and our funding will be in state government bank accounts by tomorrow. “Importantly this is a base payment and just the start of our support for local communities, in what we know will be a long recovery.” Morrison raises prospect of bushfire royal commission 09/01/2020 Prime Minister Scott Morrison has raised the prospect of a bushfires royal commission in a conference call with Coalition MPs this afternoon. MPs have told media that Mr Morrison also requested that MPs do not do any interviews with international media on the bushfires crisis – in an apparent reference to a controversial interview Sydney Liberal Craig Kelly did with Good Morning Britain, where he was accused of being a climate denier. Mr Morrison told MPs that a national royal commission into the bushfires would be seriously looked at but was something to consider “down the track”, according to accounts of the phone hookup. Mr Morrison also gave a stern message on interviews with international media, said one MP, telling those on the call that it was “completely unhelpful for MPs to do international media. The only people who should be talking to international media are myself, the foreign minister and the trade minister.” Australian troops will remain in Iraq: PM January 9, 2020 Australian troops will remain in Iraq after Iranian bombings on US-led military bases in the country. Scott Morrison said his government remained focused on ensuring stability in Iraq. "We remain committed to carrying on this important work," Mr Morrison told reporters on Thursday. The prime minister said the situation in Iraq had stabilised overnight. "That means we are in a position to continue to undertake the mission that we have set for ourselves in the Middle East and we remain committed to that, as do our other partners," he said. Mr Morrison has discussed the unfolding situation in Iraq with the Canadian prime minister. "We remain together and working together to ensure not only the safety of our own people, but to also ensure that we are in a position to continue to build a stronger Iraq," he said. Australia has several hundred troops deployed to Iraq along with a team of diplomatic staff. Ms Berejiklian said she'd told NSW Rural Fire Service to "just do what you need to do and we'll pay the bill later". January 9, 2020 The NSW government will tip an extra $1 billion into bushfire management and recovery amid a devastating and unprecedented fire season which has claimed 20 lives and almost 2000 homes. Premier Gladys Berejiklian says the funding will prioritise infrastructure repair and help stimulate fire-ravaged NSW communities over the next two years. It comes after the state government committed $231 million to disaster assistance and the federal government announced a $2 billion relief package. "The NSW government will focus on rebuilding the communities, on that infrastructure which has either been damaged, destroyed or needs improvement," she told reporters in Sydney on Thursday. "That can range from a bridge, to a road, to a rail line, to a school, a hospital, or it can also extend to communications and energy infrastructure as well." The government will start with communities where fire threat has subsided. Treasurer Dominic Perrottet said they had found the money in unallocated capital reserves across government. Asked how ongoing bushfires and drought would impact the government's surplus forecast, Mr Perrottet said they were less focused on the budget. "Our government's focus right now is to make sure we get communities and families back on their feet as quickly as possible," he said. Richmond Valley Mayor Robert Mustow, whose region includes the small village of Rappville devastated by fire in October, welcomed the announcement and said every dollar of additional funding helped. He said the community had lost roads, bridges and a community hall as well as homes, and a lot of people were still struggling. "The infrastructure needs to be replaced as soon as possible because a lot of these communities are going to feel the impact for many years to come," Mr Mustow told AAP. MidCoast Council Mayor David West said that if he had arms long enough, he would "hug the entire government for making a decision to come forward with a billion dollars". "It's not so much the thanks for that, it's what we're going to do with it and how we're going to deliver it," Mr West told AAP. He said his biggest concern was not the rebuild but the mental wellbeing of the people affected by bushfires. NSW opposition leader Jodi McKay welcomed the assistance to fire-affected communities but said they faced problems bigger than physical infrastructure and also needed upgrades to health services. The $231 million in disaster assistance funding already committed this season includes $25 million for the clean-up of damaged and destroyed homes, $6 million for extra mental health services and an extra $166 million to fight fires. Ms Berejiklian said she'd told NSW Rural Fire Service commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons to "just do what you need to do and we'll pay the bill later". Some 1870 NSW homes have been destroyed this fire season while 20 people, more than 6200 livestock and millions of animals have died. 'Rogue' Iran could trigger 'a great threat to the western world' 08/01/2020 Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had described the missile strikes on two US military bases in the Middle East as being a 'slap to the face' of the United States. He made the comments during a televised address after the missiles hit military bases in Iraq which housed US and Coalition forces. Chris Smith described Iran’s retaliatory strike as being “bold” and called for ‘cool heads’ to prevail in this situation. “Let's just hope cooler heads prevail… but where this ends up, and which allies of Iran opt to join Iran in war, is of greater concern to the world than what else Iran may have up its sleeve”. Mr Smith said the “real threat to the western world” is whether “China, backed by Russia, [would] step up to the plate for Iran, if it asks?”. Australia 'would respect' Harry and Meghan January 9, 2020 Foreign Minister Marise Payne says Australia will respect Britain's Prince Harry and Meghan Markle stepping back as senior members of the royal family. "I've seen those reports this morning and I regard that as a matter for them," Senator Payne told ABC radio on Thursday. "If that is something they wish to pursue and they think that they can be productive, effective, do what they want to do in their own lives in that way, then of course that's a decision I would respect and we would respect." The Australian Monarchist League says the announcement comes as no surprise. "The intense media intrusion into the duchess's family and unexpected criticism of the duke over jet travel whilst promoting environmental policies would have undoubtedly firmed their decision," chairman Philip Benwell said. "Prince Harry has enjoyed immense popularity in Australia and many people will be sorry to see him take a step backwards. "However, being sixth in succession to the throne, his proposed semi-retirement will have no constitutional consequences for Australia." The Australian Republic Movement offered the couple life membership to their group in a tongue-in-cheek response.