Canada’s Chief of Defence Staff wants Trenton and area residents to know there is no risk to public safety while at least 325 Canadians are quarantined at CFB Trenton for two weeks upon their return from China this week.

“To our neighbours in the Trenton area, let me assure you that while we host our fellow citizens as they are undergoing medical observation and evaluation, there is no risk to you and your families. Those engaged in direct support to them, including medical and social services, are experts in their field, and the safety protocols that have set in place are, and will be, rigorously applied and constantly reviewed. Know that we are working with public health officials from all levels of government to ensure a high level of care while our fellow citizens are under observation,” Gen. Jonathan Vance said.

Global Affairs Canada stated in a press release Sunday it had received 325 requests from Canadians who want to leave Hubei, the Chinese province hardest hit by the recent outbreak of the novel coronavirus.

That’s up from the 196 requests Foreign Affairs Minister François-Philippe Champagne reported Friday.

To protect the health and safety of Canadians—both those who are coming to and those already in Canada—the returning individuals will undergo a thorough health screening before boarding, during the flight and upon arrival at CFB Trenton.

The Canadian government chartered an aircraft for the evacuation that was sitting on standby in Hanoi, Vietnam to deploy to Wuhan, where the airspace in currently closed, once the Government of China gives authorization to land.

A reception and integration centre is being prepared at CFB Trenton where the returning Canadians, along with government officials and air crew involved in the airlift, will by quarantined for medical observation for two weeks as a precaution.

“I know this news may raise concerns for family and friends who have loved ones involved in this important mission,” said Gen. Vance. “We have full confidence in the protocols identified, and the measures put in place, to safeguard all CAF members and returning Canadians.”

Sunday, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau convened the Incident Response Group to discuss the Government of Canada’s response to the novel coronavirus, including next steps to assist Canadians who have requested help in departing from Wuhan, China, health measures, and travel advisories. The government remains fully engaged on the issue, and will do all that is necessary to ensure the safety of Canadians, both at home and abroad. Ministers and Government of Canada officials at all levels have been in close contact with Canada’s international partners including Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, the United States of America, and the World Health Organization to share information on responses to the novel coronavirus outbreak.

Meanwhile, there were at least 543 Canadians in Hubei who had registered with Global Affairs Canada’s Registration of Canadians Abroad service. However, there could be more since registration is voluntary. The increase shows the growing desire of many Canadians to evacuate the region, where the number of confirmed cases and the death toll is increasing daily. Many Canadians have expressed concerns about loved ones caught in the lockdown of the area imposed by China’s government.

The number of cases of the coronavirus has reached nearly 17,500 worldwide, and the total number of deaths is now 362, the vast majority in China. There have been four cases in Canada to date — three in Ontario and one in British Columbia.