Ohio is in the second and final year of its 133rd General Assembly, and lawmakers have until the end of the year to move their bills through the statehouse and onto Gov. Mike DeWine's desk for signing.

As of the end of 2019, Ohio lawmakers had proposed a number of consequential and bipartisan economic development measures that have the momentum to eventually become state law.

State Sen. Kirk Schuring, a Republican representing senate District 29, which encompasses most of Stark County, is a sponsor on two tax credit bills that passed the Senate last year.

Senate Bill 39: The bill, which proposes an insurance premiums tax credit for capital contributions for "transformational mixed-use developments," or TMUDs, is one the senator said he is "cautiously optimistic" will become a law. The bill would offer an insurance tax credit for developments costing $50 million or more with at least 300,000 square feet of space and a minimum 15 stories. The funds would be approved only if developers can prove the taxes generated from the project are more than the tax credit and that the tax credit is a necessity for the project to be built.

"There are developers from across the state saying this is the very thing they need to move their projects forward," Schuring said. "The projects are transformational by nature. They will be catalytic. They will cause other development by other developers because the community will be a mecca for economic activity."

Senate Bill 8: Another Schuring-sponsored bill would make Ohio the first in the country to offer an additional 10% state tax credit for residents who invest in Ohio's Opportunity Zones. The credit is capped at $1 million for a program that targets capital gains investment in economically distressed communities. Opponents of the legislation argue that the proliferation of tax credits already costs more than $9 billion a year in forgone tax revenue, and tax credit legislation like the TMUD bill would add an estimated $500 million more in funds that are necessary for communities to provide basic services.

Kent M. Scarrett, executive director of the Ohio Municipal League, a nonprofit representing state municipal governments, said he understands those concerns, but added that tax credits, when balanced with public need considerations, are a significant tool for cities wanting to draw a workforce attracted to centralized urban living.

"Downtowns and cities have to compete not only regionally but throughout the country and internationally. You cannot just say, 'We will provide jobs and they will come.' You have to get workers to come, and then the jobs will follow," Scarrett said.

House Bill 283: Attracting and retaining businesses is the goal of House Bill 283, which would appropriate $15 million in grants for the state economic development group JobsOhio to assist state airports with guarantees for private airlines in an attempt to attract additional or new international and domestic flights.

Attracting and retaining businesses is the goal of House Bill 283, which would appropriate $15 million in grants for the state economic development group JobsOhio to assist state airports with guarantees for private airlines in an attempt to attract additional or new international and domestic flights. Senate Bill 204: Also a Schuring-sponsored bill, the measure seeks to create a voluntary special district eligible to collect taxes from businesses in proximity to Akron-Canton, Dayton and Youngstown-Warren regional airports. The bill is proposed to fund public infrastructure improvements and to subsidize or guarantee new and direct routes by private airlines to spur growth.

Terrence Upchurch, a Democrat in the House representing the Cleveland area, supports the legislation sponsored by the Republican senator from Canton.

"If Cleveland is ever going to be one of the top cities in the country, we are going to need a thriving airport," Upchurch said, adding the legislation would eventually address the needs of both Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport. "We need to talk about doing additional development around those airports," he said.

House Bill 382: Like every previous legislative session, mixed in with the promising legislation are sundry bills that most statehouse observers believe have little or no chance of becoming law.

Sober but partisan attempts to address issues like citywide minimum-wage increases, hikes in the local government fund (tax revenue the state returns to municipalities) or curtailing eminent-domain laws often stall out in committee.

Others are more show than substance, such as House Bill 382, which proposes to eliminate income taxes for nonresidents working in urban areas.

"It would absolutely gut municipalities and destroy a city's economic development," said Scarrett. Even though he adamantly opposes the bill, he said he's welcomed it each time it has been introduced in the last six sessions.

"I rail on it all the time — I love to talk about it," he said. "We tell people that the bill is out there and this is what's happening in the general assembly, because we need our people to pay attention and to be involved. It is absolutely on our radar, but it goes nowhere," he added.