Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan will not be attending the 19th council of heads of government of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) which will be hosted by India around the end of this year.



© AAMIR QURESHI/AFP/Getty Images Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan

Sources in the Pakistan government on Wednesday confirmed to India Today TV that Imran Khan will not be coming to India for the SCO meet given the current "environment" between the two countries.

This is the first confirmation from Pakistan that Imran Khan might decline the invitation even as India is yet to send the formal invitation to all the eight-member States.

There could be a representation at the ministerial level from Pakistan, but there is no official confirmation on this yet.

Sources in India said that as per the protocol, all heads of government would be invited for the event.

The 'Heads of State' meet is normally attended by the foreign minister or senior cabinet ministers.

This would be the first high-level meeting of the SCO that would be organised here since India's admission to the eight-member grouping.

Also watch: India invites Pakistan PM Imran Khan for upcoming SCO meeting (Video by The Times of India)

Replay Video SETTINGS OFF HD HQ SD LO Skip Ad

India would be writing the letter of invitation addressed to the Pakistan PM Imran Khan since his position, officially, is that of the head of the government.

The SCO, which has its headquarters in Beijing, holds summits of heads of states as well as heads of government meetings annually in member countries.

India and Pakistan joined the economic and security bloc in 2017, which already had China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan as its members.

India took over the presidency of the 'heads of government' meeting last year and it was announced in the 18th meeting of the SCO's council of heads of government held in Tashkent in 2019.

Meanwhile, sources in Pakistan's foreign ministry said that Imran Khan will discuss the matter with the cabinet and others important members after he lands back in Pakistan from Davos. "Decision will be taken after consultation", said the source.

But, the prime ministers of India and Pakistan will come face-to-face much before the meet in India at the SCO summit-level meeting (Heads of State) for 2020 in St. Petersburg, Russia.

The SCO, which has its headquarters in Beijing, holds summits of heads of states as well as heads of government meetings annually in member countries. The heads of state meet for 2020 will be held in St. Petersburg, Russia.

The last time they met was at the SCO Summit in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan in June, 2019 where the leaders exchanged pleasantries.

Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi had said that the exchange between the prime ministers (of India and Pakistan) was an "informal" one.

"It wasn't a structured meeting but they did exchange pleasantries... The Pakistani Prime Minister congratulated him on his victory and of course he has won with a heavy mandate by defeating a major political family," Shah Mehmood Qureshi had said to the media in Bishkek.

That was the first interaction between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Imran Khan after the terror attack on a CRPF convoy in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama in February, 2019, in which 40 soldiers died.