Advertisements

You’ve heard of Donnie Yen’s 10-man massacre in Chinese classic ‘Ip Man’.

But have you heard of his exploits in the Ice-Cream industry?

Battle between Orchard Road and Yishun: Who will win? Check out our video here:

Yes folks, Donnie Yen might’ve retired from his legendary role of Ip Man with the tear-inducing finale ‘Ip Man 4’, but he’s far from done with the world. In fact, if reports were to be believed, it would seem that the martial artist has turned his sights to an entirely different industry, as he continues to challenge stereotypes in and out:

A fan of ice-cream? He will sell you 10.

Donnie Yen Lookalike Spotted Selling Ice Cream In Indonesia

Alright so maybe it’s not the real Donnie Yen after all. But hey, in all honesty…

Could you blame me and 99% of the world for mixing them up?

Someone call Donnie Yen’s parents because I’m pretty sure we’ve just found their long-lost son.

A street vendor from Indonesia, Mr Sjak Fo Phang dabbles not in the formidable martial art of Wing Chun, but the equally formidable profession of Ice-Cream retail.

Advertisements

Looking cool there, Mr Ip Sjak!

Apparently, Mr Sjak regularly posts comparison pictures of himself and the established actor on Facebook, in order to prove the uncanny similarities that exist between them. And after perusing the photos in question…

I gotta say;

They look so similar it’s not even funny.

And To Give It The Ultimate Test

Now you might be wondering:

“Doesn’t everyone have that one specific angle that resembles a celebrity’s? Mr Sjak might seem to look like Donnie Yen, but does he really have the face to beat down 10 men?”

If you’re indeed wondering that, wonder no more because this, this, is the one picture to rule them all:

Damn, that similarity in facial features…

And to make it even more ludicrous, their young selves looked practically the same.

With perhaps the only difference lying in the expression they gave.

Dennis To might’ve resembled Donnie Yen to a T in the Ip Man prequel, but damn;

Mr Sjak definitely takes the cake.

But Wait Just A Minute

Now, you might be thinking:

“OMAGAWD HE LOOKS EXACTLY THE SAME AS DONNIE YEN, IF I CAN’T HAVE BABIES WITH DONNIE YEN I CAN STILL PRODUCE BABIES WITH THIS HANDSOME MAN!”

But before you fly off to Indonesia with a groom kidnapping plan, allow me to remind you that firstly, it’s illegal, and secondly…

He’s taken.

Advertisements

No, not the Liam Neeson version.

This version.

So yeah, keep your hands off him, ladies.

And men.

And with that in mind, I look forward to Ip Man’s fifth adventure:

Ip Man 5: A Finale’s Finale With Ice-Cream In Hand.