The Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) on Tuesday stressed the importance of boosting local car parts production, diversify its source of the big-ticket item and reduce its reliance on major manufacturing markets in the face of production hurdles brought by the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak.

This developed as potential supply chain issues traced to the COVID-19 hound the automobile industry, coming in parallel to an ongoing investigation on whether a safeguard duty should be imposed on motor car imports to prop up domestic manufacturing which has seen a decline over the years.

Trade secretary Ramon Lopez said the outbreak poses an invitation for car companies to jack up local production as part of their strategy. The outbreak has led to global production halts as its impact on manufacturing giant China cascade to other markets.

Lopez said that while local companies are bound to cope up with the temporary effects of the slowdown in China’s production, sourcing from alternative areas in China or other sources such as the Philippines could be among their options.

“Hopefully, there’s also a Philippine affect — a positive effect — like for auto parts. If we have the capabilities, then they can source here,” Lopez told reporters in an interview at the sidelines of a turnover ceremony by Toyota in Taguig on Monday night.

“(The effect should be) temporary, (but) we don’t know yet how many more days, or, hopefully, not more weeks… I think the point also and the learning to many manufacturers is not to put all eggs in one basket. It’s really important to diversify your sourcing so that when things like this (COVID-19) happen, you’re not too much affected,” he added.

The DTI is pursuing an investigation on labor group Philippine Metalworkers Alliance’s application for a safeguard duty on car imports, which was made on the basis that a surge in imports between 2014 to 2018 hurt the local manufacturing industry.

Lopez said the department has informed auto industry stakeholders of the investigation, and assured car firms that there will be a “balanced ruling, taking consideration all the stakeholders’ position.”

“But with that, we impressed upon them that it’s high time we give importance to the local manufacturing industry. We are trying to balance also the protection to the local manufacturers, while we want also to encourage more players here… it’s not opposing views — having competition and protecting also the local manufacturers, because there are still imports coming in,” Lopez said.

Meanwhile, industry leader Toyota Motor Philippines Corp., which officially welcomed former executive vice president for Toyota Motor Asia Pacific Atsuhiro Okamoto as its new president on Monday night, said COVID-2019 still has no impact on its production for now.