POLITICO Brussels Playbook: Brexit Day — Say goodbye — Now let’s move on

Press play to listen to this article Voiced by Amazon Polly

Presented by Volkswagen

By FLORIAN EDER

with Zoya Sheftalovich

PRESENTED BY

Send tips here | Tweet @florianeder | Listen to Playbook and view in your browser

SITUATIONAL AWARENESS I: The UNHCR is suspending its operational work in Tripoli over security and safety concerns, the U.N.’s refugee agency said Thursday. Meanwhile, the only common line the EU has on Libya is to publicly (and thus far futilely) wish for both a truce and respect for the arms embargo.

SITUATIONAL AWARENESS II: The World Health Organization has finally declared a global public health emergency over the spread of the deadly coronavirus, as Judith Mischke reports.

The question is, why only now? WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus gave an answer that made it clear that his body isn’t a politics-free zone. “Let me be clear,” he said, “this declaration is not a vote of no confidence in China. On the contrary, the WHO continues to have confidence in China’s capacity to control the outbreak.”

GOOD MORNING. We’re mentioning these two actual potential global crises first because there’s been so much emotion, nostalgia and mourning over the past few days already. What if EU presidents, leaders, ministers, MEPs and staffers instead did something helpful with all that Brexit energy overflow?

HERE’S TO AMBITION: The EU’s three eminent presidents had their retreat at the Jean Monnet House in Bazoches Thursday. Such pointed symbolism carries with it the risk of falling short of the expectations it creates. Want to be Monnet? Better come up with something that has the impact of the Coal and Steel Community.

The trio — Ursula von der Leyen, Charles Michel and David Sassoli — have a joint press appearance this morning at 11 a.m. to debrief on what they talked about. They’ll outline a possible future joint approach particularly to the planned Conference on the Future of Europe.

Expectation management: Don’t expect a joint conference declaration to be finalized today, three EU officials told Playbook — the gap between the Parliament on one side and the Council and Commission on the other is too wide. The latter position so far is best described as fending off the Parliament’s über-clear view on what should happen. If there is some consensus, it’ll be on plans to start the conference in May.

**A message from Volkswagen: It was a blast! Monday night our CEO Herbert Diess was in town and discussed with MEP Bas Eickhout (Greens/EFA) how the decarbonized future will look like. Thanks for the great discussion to everyone who was there — for those who missed it, watch the recording on Twitter.**

FRIENDSHIPS, NEW AND OLD

TODAY’S THE DAY … On Thursday, the EU got its part of Brexit done — but not before stating one more time that Britain is leaving on the EU’s terms: Brexit takes effect at midnight Brussels time, after all.

… SORT OF: As far as the EU is concerned, though, the U.K. left long ago, according to David Herszenhorn and Maïa de La Baume. “The post-Brexit EU is already here — it took shape long before Brexit day as the Brits, for most practical purposes, made their exit ages ago,” they write. “Even as the Brexit process was hopelessly deadlocked in Westminster, Brussels was adjusting its postures on issues like enlargement, and security and defense — becoming more reluctant to accept new members (something Britain long championed) and displaying more openness to military cooperation (something Britain historically opposed). There is also a new, if uncertain, balance-of-power, as a taut zipline between Paris and Berlin has replaced the triangle in which the Brits served as the overly apologizing mediator between the spend-happy French and the austere Germans.” Speaking of which …

Ménage à trois no more: “One of the things we will be missing is of course the energy. Because we have a French-German axis — but part of the energy to make that axis work comes from — came from — the U.K.,” Commission Executive Vice President Margrethe Vestager said in the Commission’s press room on Thursday when asked what she would miss about Britain. Other EU countries — “maybe changing coalitions of member states” — would have to step into that void, she added. “I think we will see a new dynamic in the union, but it will take some time before we fully recover.” Vestager attended the Brexit vote in the parliament on Wednesday, which she said was “really touching because you see it is real.”

OP-ED COMPETITION: “We will be free from EU rules — after all, the point of Brexit was to take back control. But at the same time, it’s in all our interests to maintain the flow of goods and understand what businesses need to succeed. We also want to continue to set high standards in workers’ rights and the environment, and we share a desire with the EU to build a secure, prosperous and sustainable future for all our citizens.” That’s the U.K.’s Brexit Secretary Steve Barclay speaking, in an op-ed for POLITICO.

The 3 EU presidents, in a joint op-ed in several EU newspapers, write: “How close this partnership will be depends on decisions still to be taken. No decision is without consequences.” Here’s the German version, via FAZ.

‘Abiding friendship’ from Dublin: Taoiseach Leo Varadkar has penned a note to his fellow European leaders in a range of European papers, thanking them for standing by Dublin. “Whatever happens, I hope there will always be a place at the table for them if they ever choose to come back,” Varadkar writes. “And I’m certain, no matter what, that we — both Ireland and the EU more broadly — will continue to have an abiding friendship with the U.K.”

NO ABIDING FRIENDSHIP HERE: All British staffers in the European Conservatives and Reformists group in the European Parliament received an email calling them to a meeting on Thursday — at which they were fired on the spot, Playbook hears from a parliamentary insider. Another parliamentary staffer confirmed the move, and added that the Brits were replaced by Poles. (Poland’s Law and Justice party has the largest number of MEPs in the ECR Group.)

(STILL) SPECIAL RELATIONSHIP

OK, NOW LET’S MOVE ON: Did someone perhaps overplay their hand just a bit in their attempt to impose a ban of China’s Huawei on their security partners? U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the relationship between the U.K. and the U.S. “is not at risk” over London’s decision to give the company a role in Britain’s 5G network. At an event in London on Thursday, Pompeo said the U.K. remains “a partner and a friend.” Emilio Casalicchio reports.

First in line: Pompeo stressed the U.S. intends to “put the U.K. at the front of the line” for negotiations on a trade deal and wants to “lower every barrier” between the two countries. “An important part of this relationship is reducing the friction between these kinds of things, whether it is the friction of the ease of travel, it’s the ease of exchange or confidence in information systems, of our students going to each other’s schools and the cross-generation of knowledge that will flow from that,” Pompeo said.

Not an either/or: Those areas, along with security, “are the things that, if we do this well together, will be special and unique about the relationship after the United Kingdom finishes this process of departure from the EU,” he said. Pompeo added he is confident the U.K. will “remain a close partner” both for the U.S. and the EU after Brexit. “These are not exclusive relationships,” he said.

But the chicken! Pompeo admitted there will be “real contentious issues around agriculture” in trade talks with the U.K. “I am sure the ag issues will be difficult,” Pompeo told LBC radio during his U.K. visit. He warned there were “deep political” questions to be answered and that “hard conversations” would be required. Eleni Courea has more for POLITICO Brexit, Agri and Food, Trade and Health Pros.

**We're excited to welcome Helena Dalli, the first ever European commissioner for equality, at POLITICO's Women Rule Live event on March 5 in Brussels. Request an invitation and join us for an exclusive interview.**

GRAND FINALE

HOW DOES IT FEEL? Tune in to this week’s EU Confidential podcast, featuring a lively debate with outgoing British MEPs Jude Kirton-Darling (Labour Party), Alex Phillips (Green Party) and Ann Widdecombe (Brexit Party) during their last days as members of the European Parliament.

From the party front: Some Brits and their friends really meant it when they said they were #notleavingquietly last night, our own Andrew Gray writes in to report. Beneath a ceiling festooned with flags of EU countries and golden stars, they threw themselves into Scottish traditional dancing at a Brexit cèilidh organized by outgoing Green MEP Ellie Chowns. One partygoer declared it was already his fourth Brexit bash of the night. A taste of the evening here and here.

More party time: Annabelle Dickson has more about the Brexit parties in both Brussels and London in this morning’s London Playbook. Make sure you’re signed up.

LAST BREXIT BATTLE: Two politically charged pieces of music are competing for a place on Britain’s weekly official singles chart, due to be published this afternoon. There’s a pro-Brexit song by Dominic Frisby, and the Ode to Joy (even if it is an André Rieux version, for some — probably British — reason), the Official Charts company said.

BRUSSELS BUSINESS

BREXIT DIVIDEND FOR THE RIGHT: The European Parliament is set to shift rightward after Brexit, after the loss of the U.K.’s 73 MEPs and the distribution of the 27 proposed top-up legislators, report Maïa de La Baume and Francesco Piccinelli in this infographic-rich piece.

PARLIAMENT’S NEW ASSERTIVENESS: MEPs’ furor over corporate lobbying and the gender imbalance in top jobs led them to block a candidate for a financial regulatory post for the first time on Thursday, with MEPs voting against Gerry Cross, an Irish financial regulator who was nominated to become executive director of the European Banking Authority (EBA). Working against Cross’ bid: He has worked in industry associations, and he’s a man.

“Cross’ rejection shows Parliament condemns male dominance in economic decision-making,” Dutch Socialist MEP and decision-maker Paul Tang said in a statement after the vote. “The European Parliament stops the revolving door between banks and supervisors and sends a strong signal against the power of the banking lobby,” said Green MEP Sven Giegold. More here for POLITICO Financial Services Pros from Hannah Brenton.

LATE TO THE PARTY: The EU’s diplomatic service has now opened an investigation into possible wrongdoing by an ex-ambassador suspected by German prosecutors of spying for China. Jacopo Barigazzi has more.

CONTINENTAL KINGS

SA MAJESTÉ IS NOT AMUSED: Discipline, please! Emmanuel Macron is trying to bring order back into his government after weeks of confusing signals from ministers about whether they’ll run in municipal elections in March. His party will try to seize several major cities — but perhaps not like this: Agriculture Minister Didier Guillaume and Secretary of State Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, in charge of trade and tourism, were both running in Biarritz, but on competing lists. On Thursday, both withdrew “at the request of the president of the Republic, in an approach of clarity and unity,” an Elysée spokesperson said.

More clarity expected today: French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe has reportedly been mulling a potential bid for mayor in Le Havre and is expected to announce his final decision today, according to Le Parisien. Philippe’s lack of clarity around his ambitions in Le Havre has raised eyebrows, with some suggesting he’d better get those pension reforms done. Elisa Braun and Marion Solletty look into a campaign that has turned into a bit of a human resources headache for Macron.

A REAL ROYAL REPRIMAND: Belgium’s King Philippe urged political parties to overcome the current stalemate and to quickly “install a full-fledged government,” in a speech Thursday. “The time has come for the efforts of the past eight months to crystallize,” the king said. Displaying unusual insistence, Philippe reminded Belgian parties that in every single other case, the May 2019 elections have long produced coalitions and working governments, from the local and regional level to the EU one.

They’ll wait … not forever. It “is the legitimate expectation of our citizens, who aspire to stability and action,” for a new government to be formed, said Philippe. He ended with a rare explanation of the Belgian mindset: “Their patience is not indifference.” Belgium’s last government with a parliamentary majority fell in late 2018.

In practical terms, the two emissaries Philippe has tasked with exploring the formation of a government have until next Tuesday to present the king with their “final” report. The problem is that conventionally, the Belgian government includes the winners of the elections in both parts of the country — but the Flemish nationalist N-VA party and the Walloon Socialists appear incompatible.

OVER AND OUT

WHAT MERKEL IS READING: A German freedom of information request has revealed which media is considered for inclusion in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s morning press clippings. Here’s the answer (and before you ask, POLITICO is indeed among them.)

NEW ROLE: Former Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker has joined the board of the Jacques Delors Institute, the think tank tweeted.

BIRTHDAYS: MEP Alex Agius Saliba; Former MEP Dan Dalton; European Parliament’s Clément Vernet; Former Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands; Pop star Justin Timberlake.

THANKS TO: Maïa de La Baume and our producer Miriam Webber.

**A message from Volkswagen: The transformation of the transport sector is key to achieve climate neutrality in Europe by 2050. This is why the Volkswagen Group goes all in on e-mobility. We are fully committed to the Paris Agreement and have launched the most ambitious electric offensive of all car manufacturers. On Monday, our CEO Herbert Diess was in town for Volkswagen’s New Year’s reception. In a panel debate with MEP Bas Eickhout (Greens/EFA) he demonstrated that we take this responsibility seriously. Watch the highlights on Twitter. There is no alternative to a decarbonized transport sector and there is no alternative to e-mobility. It is exciting how fast the transport sector is changing and together we need to accelerate this change. We at Volkswagen are always open for discussion — let’s make Europe the first climate neutral continent. #shapingmobility for generations to come.**

SUBSCRIBE to the POLITICO newsletter family: Brussels Playbook | London Playbook | EU Confidential | Sunday Crunch | EU Influence | AI: Decoded | D.C. Playbook | All our POLITICO Pro policy morning newsletters