Esper review finds $7B to redirect to higher priorities Presented by Northrop Grumman

With Jacqueline Feldscher, Connor O’Brien and Daniel Lippman

Editor's Note: This edition of Morning Defense is published weekdays at 10 a.m. POLITICO Pro Defense subscribers hold exclusive early access to the newsletter each morning at 5:30 a.m. Learn more about POLITICO Pro's comprehensive policy intelligence coverage, policy tools and services at politicopro.com.

Quick Fix

— The defense secretary’s “night court” budget scrub goes after defense agencies and special ops.

— The Navy conducted a record number of “freedom of navigation” patrols in the South China Sea last year.

— Waiting for launch: Space Force structure is still in the works, Pentagon says.

A message from Northrop Grumman: Space isn’t just for exploring. It’s for robotic satellite servicing and package deliveries. It’s for intelligence, surveillance, communications, and early warning. It’s for living, roving, and building. At Northrop Grumman, it’s for all of the above. Find out more about how we’re defining possible in space. Click here.

HAPPY THURSDAY AND WELCOME TO MORNING DEFENSE, where we're always on the lookout for tips, pitches and feedback. Email us at bbender@politico.com, and follow on Twitter @bryandbender, @morningdefense and @politicopro.

Pentagon

‘NIGHT COURT’ GAVEL COMES DOWN: Defense Secretary Mark Esper’s “night court” effort to squeeze savings out of the defense budget to put toward China and Russia has “generated over $5 billion in FY 2021 savings … for reinvestment in lethality and readiness, and identified more than $2 billion in activities and functions to transfer to the military departments,” according to an eight-page overview for Congress provided to Morning D.

The report, designed to help set the stage for next week’s defense budget request rollout, highlights the results so far of Esper’s “Defense-Wide Review.” Among the entities targeted for cuts were the Office of the Secretary of Defense; the Joint Staff; Defense Agencies; the DoD Inspector General; and U.S. Special Operations Command.

No specifics yet on programs being slashed in fiscal years 2021 through 2025. But the report says that among the “functional categories” that got hit are personnel and benefits; warfighting and support; research, development, test and evaluation; and policy and oversight.

“The question was not ‘Is this a good program?,’ but rather ‘Is a dollar spent on this program or organization more important to our military capability than spending that same dollar on a [National Defense Strategy] priority,’” the overview says.

The savings are being invested in nuclear modernization, space, missile defense, hypersonic weapons, artificial intelligence, 5th generation mobile communications and to improve the readiness of military response forces.

Secretary of Defense Mark Esper

What’s next? More details will be out next week with the new budget. The report also says Esper’s work so far “is just the beginning.” We can look forward to “line-by-line reviews” of the budgets for the Departments of the Army, Navy and Air Force, as well as combatant commands, in preparation for the fiscal 2022 budget.

HAPPENING TODAY: Esper speaks at 10 a.m. about the National Defense Strategy at an event hosted by Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.

SPACE FORCE 1.0: The Pentagon has provided Congress its initial plan for the newest branch of the military, but is not expected to make final decisions on the organizational structure of the Space Force until May, according to a report obtained by our colleague Jacqueline Feldscher. The plan stresses the Pentagon is trying to minimize costly bureaucracy, a top priority for Congress, and also said a premium will be placed on recruiting a “technologically-advanced” workforce.

The Space Force still has only a single member. Chief of Space Operations Gen. John Raymond is the only person who has been formally transferred into the new branch pending a new personnel system to support the influx of space troops from the Air Force and other branches. “The last thing we want to have happen is we go through this process. We gin up excitement … and people are happy — but then they don’t get paid,” Air Force Lt. Gen. David Thompson, the vice commander of the new service, said at a Pentagon briefing Wednesday. He added that 16,000 people are designated for the Space Force.

What to call them? Thompson said officials are consulting with the language department at the Air Force Academy and the Defense Language Institute — and doing some internal crowdsourcing — to come up with a name for the rank-and-file space troops. He declined to share the “couple of really strong options” but they do not include “space cadets” or “spacemen.”

Email us your ideas and we’ll highlight the best ones on Friday!

PATROLS INCREASE: U.S. Navy patrols in the disputed areas of the South China Sea inched up in 2019, according to new data released by U.S. Pacific Fleet, our colleagues at the South China Morning Post report.

“U.S. Navy vessels sailed within 12 nautical miles of features claimed or occupied by China seven times in 2019,” the report says.

That is the highest number of “freedom of navigation” patrols since 2014, when Beijing began constructing artificial islands around the disputed reefs and the U.S. decided to demonstrate that these are international waters.





On the Hill

TALKING NUKES: The House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee this morning holds a closed hearing with Adm. Charles Richard, who leads U.S. Strategic Command. It's the nuclear chief's first visit to the top defense committees ahead of next week's budget rollout.

War Report

NATO DEBATES DRAWDOWN: "Some members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization are considering withdrawing thousands of their forces from Afghanistan once the United States begins to officially cut its own presence in the country, according to American and European officials," The New York Times reports.

The 29-member military alliance has about 8,700 troops in Afghanistan leading what it calls “a non-combat mission to train, advise and assist the Afghan security forces and institutions.” The biggest troop contributors as of December were Germany (1,300); Britain (1,100); Italy (895); the Republic of Georgia (871); and Romania (797).

The Trump administration says it is planning to reduce the American military presence from some 12,000 troops to 8,500.

Related: The search is underway for an American contractor believed to have been kidnapped by the Taliban in Afghanistan last week, Newsweek reports.





Industry Intel

INDUSTRIAL BASE TROUBLE: The health of the U.S. industrial base received a “C” grade and is only getting worse, according to a report released Wednesday by the National Defense Industrial Association. The trade association gave the industrial base a score of 77 out of 100 after reviewing eight areas. Political and regulatory conditions saw a dramatic decrease, falling 13 points from 2017 to 2019, primarily driven by more red tape and decreased congressional interest in major defense acquisition programs.

“There’s a tendency to say we have the greatest military in the world, which we do,” retired Gen. Herbert “Hawk” Carlisle, NDIA president, told reporters in a phone briefing on the findings. “But we won’t stay that way if we don’t address this problem now.”

He added that Russia and China often don’t have to deal with the political hurdles forced on American companies by Congress and the administration. “As far as I know, Russia and China have never had to undergo a continuing resolution like we have, so industry feels that,” he said.

Making Moves

Heather Nauert, the former State Department spokesperson, is joining the advisory board of BGR Group, a bipartisan lobbying firm, although she won’t be lobbying. She will also be teaching a class on the intersection of politics, media and foreign policy at the Carnegie Mellon Institute for Politics and Strategy this fall in D.C.





Speed Read

— Pentagon officials stunned by White House decision to block Ukraine aid, new emails show: CNN

— CIA director's clapping for Trump rankles intel veterans: POLITICO

— VA Secretary Wilkie on firing his deputy: ‘Nothing personal,’ just business: Military.com

— Which military branch is richest? Breaking Defense

— U.S. has halted a secret program that helped Turkey target Kurdish militants: Reuters

— Defense innovation experts to Congress: Put money where Pentagon’s mouth is: Defense News

A message from Northrop Grumman: At Northrop Grumman we’re always pushing the boundaries in space. Right now our spacecraft and systems are spread across the solar system – going further, deeper and faster than anyone thought possible a generation ago. Why? Because defining the limits of possible is what we do. In fact, it’s what we’ve always done. When we put the first man on the moon, we defined an era of space exploration. When we put the first comms satellite in orbit, we defined the communication age. And with our Mission Extension Vehicle we are defining the future of in-orbit satellite servicing. Find out more about all the ways we’re defining possible in space. Click here.

Follow us on Twitter Dave Brown @dave_brown24



Bryan Bender @bryandbender



Connor O'Brien @connorobriennh



Jacqueline Feldscher @jacqklimas



Lara Seligman @laraseligman