Though it is not often talked about, Christian persecution is one of the biggest human rights issues of our time. Around the world, more than 245 million Christians live in areas where they experience high levels of persecution. In many countries, sharing the Gospel means risking your life.

The mission of Relevant Radio® is to bring Christ to the world through media. And that includes areas of the world where Christ is not welcomed by those in power. That’s why it was beautiful to hear this story from a listener named Lloyd, who called in to The Patrick Madrid Show to share an example of how Relevant Radio is truly bringing Christ to the world.

Lloyd said, “I’m in northern Wisconsin, and they bring a lot of younger kids to this area (because of the tourist area that we’re in) for work. And I met a young kid from China this year, and he stayed with us probably 15+ times overnight, and I got to know him fairly well.”

“His mother was Buddhist, his dad was nothing, and he didn’t believe in any God,” Lloyd explained. “But over the time he was here we took him to church quite a few times. We always had the radio station on Relevant Radio and we always prayed at meals and stuff. So he got to see the Christian part of it. But then I also was a sponsor for a young man for his Confirmation, so he got to see the bishop and see how everything went. It was a wonderful program.”

The relationship between the Catholic Church and China is tense. While the Church was suppressed for decades, in the 1970s Catholics were allowed to practice their faith through the Chinese Catholic Patriotic Association (CCPA), which is under the authority of the government and does not recognize the authority of the Vatican. There is still an element of an underground Church, as Chinese Catholics who reject the authority of the government on Church matters are suppressed. While there has been dialogue and agreements between the Vatican and the Chinese government in recent years, the relationship continues to be tense and complicated.

Catholics make up less than 1% of the population in China, so it is no wonder that the young man Lloyd befriended was not familiar with Catholicism. Fortunately, he was able to take a little bit of his experience back home with him.

“He emailed me this last weekend, and he told me that he’s got [the Relevant Radio] App in China,” Lloyd told Patrick. “He said he started listening to your program for an hour a day in China. What a difference the people who are giving money to Relevant Radio make. They can see that this kid from China is listening to your program. Plus, who else can he get listening to your program?”

Patrick expressed how pleased he was to be a part of this young man’s journey, saying, “Well, this is a great victory for him, at least insofar as now he’s got a lifeline for listening to the Gospel of Jesus Christ.”

When you give to Relevant Radio you are giving people in your community and around the world a lifeline for listening to the Gospel. You are bringing Christ to the world – even places in the world that are hostile to the Catholic faith. If you haven’t yet made a pledge to our Give From the Heart Pledge Drive this week, make yours today. It’s one simple, yet powerful, way you can share the Good News of Christ with those most in need.

Listen to the full conversation below:

The Patrick Madrid Show airs weekdays from 9:00 – noon Eastern/6:00 – 9:00 a.m. Pacific on Relevant Radio and the Relevant Radio App.