PETALING JAYA: Around 200,000 influenza vaccines will be brought into the country within the next two months to meet with demands, Health Minister Datuk Seri Dr Dzulkefly Ahmad said.

Dzulkefly said out of the figure, 16,800 influenza vaccines from various suppliers arrived today.

“On Monday, about 15,000 doses will arrive while the remaining 67,000 will be supplied on Jan 27.

“In total almost 100,000 influenza vaccines will be supplied this month, while the rest will be brought in within the next two to three weeks,” he told reporters at the 2020 Health Carnival organised by the Malaysian Medical Association (MMA) at Bangunan Peladang, here, today.

Dzulkefly also advised health practitioners and private clinics not to overcharge the influenza vaccines which should be priced between RM50 to RM100, as demands increase.

“Although there has been no standardised price on influenza vaccines, I urge all private clinics and care providers to not take advantage of their patients.

“Influenza vaccines are usually priced between RM50 to RM100 and I hope there won’t be those trying to hike up the price.

“While we do not control the vaccine’s price, I also hold them (care providers and medical practitioners) to be responsible for putting a price that is in the interest of taking care of their patients. I also believe that the MMA as well as Perdim (Malaysian Muslim Doctors Organisation) will monitor them,” he said.

Yesterday, Deputy Health Minister Dr Lee Boon Chye said it is up to private clinics and hospitals to set the price of the influenza vaccines as it is not under the category of controlled medicines.

As of Jan 16, two nine-month-old babies were tested positive with Influenza A and are now being treated at Sultanah Aminah Hospital (HSA) in Johor.

On the increase of patients with Influenza A in Selangor, Dzulkefly said the National Crisis Preparedness and Response Centre (CPRC) will continue to monitor and update reports of any influenza related cases to the ministry’s research centre.

Since early this year up to Jan 15, 237 people in Selangor had been diagnosed with Influenza A as the state health department carried out tests on samples obtained from 330 people, out of which 67 per cent are students from 46 clusters suspected of having influenza-like illnesses (ILI) symptoms.

Meanwhile, Dr Dzulkefly said on the new coronavirus originating from Wuhan, China, the ministry will continue to monitor all entry points and remain cautious of the outbreak which has yet to arrive in Malaysia.