Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi met with Josep Borrell, the European Union (EU) High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy here on Saturday on the sidelines of the 56th Munich Security Conference.

Borrell said that the EU appreciated China's efforts in fighting the novel coronavirus epidemic and has full confidence in China in overcoming the epidemic soon. The European side has provided some assistance and is willing to provide more anti-virus medical supplies according to China's needs, he said.

The EU stands for an objective assessment of the situation and avoiding panic, Borrell said, adding that it is inappropriate that some countries have overreacted by closing borders and suspending flights.

Borrell also said that criticisms and accusations against China from individual countries are out of jealousy for China's success, since China is the only country in human history that was able to achieve great accomplishments within a short period of time.

China is not a belligerent country and it is fully justified to have a military that is able to ensure its own security, Borrell said, adding the EU welcomes China's greater role on the international stage and will try to find ways to live peacefully together with China and the United States.

This year has been an important year for EU-China relations and the EU side is willing to work together with China towards success in this year's political agenda, including the EU-China summit, he said.

The top Chinese diplomat said that Borrell's positive and open attitude towards China's development is very much appreciated.

China always supports the growth and prosperity of the EU, regardless of whether the bloc is in good times or adversity, and China hopes to see the EU play a greater role in the international arena, Wang said.

There is no fundamental disagreement between China and the EU, and the two sides are partners, not rivals, he said, noting that both China and the EU support free trade, multilateralism, a multipolar world and democracy of international relations.

Faced with a variety of risks and challenges in the world, China and the EU should further strengthen strategic coordination, Wang said. China is willing to work closely with the EU on the important political agenda this year, he noted.

Wang also thanked the EU's understanding and support for China's fight against the novel coronavirus epidemic.