A 33-year-old Adajan resident has been admitted to NCH.

SURAT: Samples of one more patient who complained of chronic cough and cold in the city were sent for tests at National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune on Thursday. A 33-year-old Adajan resident has been admitted to New Civil Hospital (NCH).Results of the two other patients — a 41-year-old Varachha resident and the 21-year-old MBBS girl student from Puna area — are likely to come in a couple of days. Meanwhile, they are admitted in the isolation ward of the SMIMER hospital.The patient approached the NCH on his own, and he was not under observation of the health department of the Surat Municipal Corporation ( SMC ). According to the procedure, local health officials are supposed to keep a traveller, who has returned from China recently, under observation for 14 days.The SMC’s health department was not provided name and details of the patient by the central government to keep him under medical observation. So far, the state and city health officials claimed that they were keeping a watch on all the individual who had returned from China.“The man was not in our list and we were not examining him on daily basis. He approached the NCH on his own since he noticed symptoms similar to the infection,” said an health official from the SMC.Inquiry by the health officials revealed that the man did not return to the city directly from China, but he had gone to Cambodia and then arrived in India. He returned on January 21, and since his health did not improve, he approached the NCH on Thursday.“Since the man did not come directly from China it was not in the list provided by the central government. There are many passengers who go to some other country from China and later come to India. The patients’ travel history to China can be known only if the patients themselves contact the health officials and provide the actual travel history,” said a health official.The SMC’s health department has already issued instructions to doctors and hospital to issue an alert, if a patient informs about his travel to a coronavirus affected country. Apart from isolation wards in the NCH and SMIMER, the SMC has instructed some top private hospitals to keep isolation wards ready if needed in the time of emergency.