Congratulations, pusatgrosirimport.com got a very good Social Media Impact Score! Show it by adding this HTML code on your site:

Pusatgrosirimport.com scored 70 Social Media Impact. Social Media Impact score is a measure of how much a site is popular on social networks. 3.5/5.0 Stars by Social Team

This CoolSocial report was updated on 9 Jul 2014, you can refresh this analysis whenever you want.

pusatgrosirimport.com is very popular in Facebook. Furthermore its facebook page has 130 likes.

This is the sum of two values: the total number of people who shared, liked or recommended the pusatgrosirimport homepage on Facebook + the total number of page likes (if pusatgrosirimport has a Facebook fan page). The total number of people who shared the pusatgrosirimport homepage on Google Plus by a google +1 button. This is the sum of two values: the total number of people who shared the pusatgrosirimport homepage on Twitter + the total number of pusatgrosirimport followers (if pusatgrosirimport has a Twitter account). The total number of people who shared the pusatgrosirimport homepage on Delicious. The total number of people who shared the pusatgrosirimport homepage on StumbleUpon.

Basic Information

PAGE TITLE GROSIR TAS IMPORT MURAH, TOKO TAS IMPORT, FASHION TAS IMPORT DESCRIPTION Pusat Grosir Import adalah Importir tangan pertama tas import di Jakarta, semua ready stock siap kirim KEYWORDS tas import, grosir tas import, tas korea, tas hongkong, tas china, tas bangkok, reseller tas, dropship tas, tas jeans, tas kulit, tas kain, tas branded, grosir tas murah, grosir tas import murah, tas branded import, tas ransel, tas anak, tas sekolah, tas OTHER KEYWORDS 00 tr, 00 fb, tas import, import, grosir, harga, grosir tas import



The URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is the address of the site. CoolSocial advanced keyword analysis tool is able to detect and analyze every keyword on each page of a site. The keywords meta-tag found in the head section of the homepage. The description meta-tag found in the head section of the homepage. The title found in the head section of the homepage.

Domain and Server

DOCTYPE XHTML 1.0 Transitional CHARSET AND LANGUAGE UTF-8 DETECTED LANGUAGE English English SERVER nginx admin OPERATIVE SYSTEM

Represents HTML declared type (e.g.: XHTML 1.1, HTML 4.0, the new HTML 5.0) The language of pusatgrosirimport.com as detected by CoolSocial algorithms. Operative System running on the server. Type of server and offered services. Character set and language of the site.

Site Traffic trend during the last year. Only available for sites ranked <= 100000 in the world.

Referring domains for pusatgrosirimport.com by MajesticSeo. High values are a sign of site importance over the web and on web engines.

Facebook link

FACEBOOK PAGE LINK FOUND FACEBOOK PAGE www.facebook.com/pusatgrosirimport DESCRIPTION Importir tangan pertama fashion tas import LIKES 130 PEOPLE TALKING ABOUT 14 PAGE TYPE Shopping/retail TIMELINE PAGE TIMELINE

A Facebook page link can be found in the homepage or in the robots.txt file. The type of Facebook page. Facebook Timeline is the new layout of Facebook pages. The total number of people who tagged or talked about website Facebook page in the last 7-10 days. The URL of the found Facebook page. The total number of people who like website Facebook page. The description of the Facebook page describes website and its services to the social media users.

Twitter account link

TWITTER PAGE LINK NOT FOUND