CLOSE

Yakisoba. Firecracker chicken. Hmong Kapoon Noodle.

What do all these dishes have in common? They're all on the menu of Canton's newest carryout restaurant.

A departure from traditional Asian food takeout restaurants, The Takeout Box, opened by Westland resident Ning Hang, isn't your grandmother's carryout restaurant. Hang aims for the restaurant at 39958 Ford Road to be a place where customers can get a wide variety of delicious foods from several different cultures.

"We had this idea for a one-stop shop Asian fusion restaurant for a long time," Hang said. "I just want to be able to cater to everyone, because my uncle, he does Thai restaurants, but then he gets people that want to eat Chinese, he gets people who want to eat Korean. He tries to cater to them, even though he's a Thai restaurant.

"That's when we came around to this idea: let's create a place that provides all the best Asian comfort foods."

More: World War II heavy artillery gunner from Canton dies at 99

More: Canton man pleads guilty to voyeurism at swim school

More: Here's the latest news on Canton's plans to turn Ford Road into boulevard

The restaurant opened in mid-December in the former cellphone repair shop in the shopping center at Ford and Lotz. Hang come from a family of chefs, with family members operating restaurants in communities such as Kalamazoo, East Lansing and Ann Arbor. He opened Bangkok Flavor II several years ago at Cherry Hill and Lilley, running that restaurant before selling it to his uncle. He then began looking for a space for his new concept.

He signed a lease in March and spent eight months preparing the interior. That included setting up the kitchen, erecting walls and prepping the waiting area.

The menu has a wide range of eye-popping items, from soups to starters to entrees, with food being influenced by Japanese, Thai, Chinese and Vietnamese cuisine. Hang is hoping to add some additional cuisine types in the near future, including Korean and even some Hawaiian dishes such as poke bowls.

"Poke bowls are like a deconstructed version of sushi," he said. "That's really popular in the Los Angeles area, and I wanted to bring a little L.A. to here."

Locating the new restaurant in Canton was always the goal, Hang said. He looked at several locations along Ford Road before finding his current spot on the township's east side.

He's hoping to become a mainstay in the Canton community, being a part of the township's events and business scene as it continues to grow.

"I came to Canton because it was a growing economy; it was still up-and-coming," Hang said. "I wanted to be able to put my foot in the door and become part of history as it still continues to grow."

While The Takeout Box is the only one of its kind right now, Hang said he's hoping to grow the business in the future.

"I hope maybe in five years, once this becomes established, we can try to branch out and franchise," he said.

The restaurant is open 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Friday, noon to 9 p.m. Saturday and noon to 8 p.m. Sunday. A full menu can be found online at the-takeout-box.business.site.

Contact reporter David Veselenak at dveselenak@hometownlife.com or 734-678-6728. Follow him on Twitter @davidveselenak.

Read or Share this story: https://www.hometownlife.com/story/life/food/2020/01/13/takeout-box-canton-highlights-several-asian-cuisines/2843976001/