MANILA - Do you want to know if there is a confirmed case of novel coronavirus in your province?

Instead of waiting for the Department of Health’s press briefings, netizens can now visit a website that will not only list the number of patients under investigation (PUIs) for the 2019 novel coronavirus acute respiratory disease (2019-nCoV ARD) but also show a map of their general location.

“It’s going to be easily appreciated. Makita nyo yung map, kung saan yung PUIs natin. And the number of cases will be changed immediately as they change from one category to another,” said Health Undersecretary Eric Domingo during a press briefing.

The nCoV tracker website (Link: https://ncovtracker.doh.gov.ph/) also shows how many of the PUIs are admitted in hospitals and how many have already been discharged.

Domingo earlier announced that all regions now have at least one PUI. These are patients who show symptoms of the 2019-nCoV ARD and either traveled recently to China or were in contact with someone who tested positive for the coronavirus.

Visiting the nCoV tracker website also shows the World Health Organization Global nCoV dashboard, which has numbers of confirmed cases in different countries. For China, where most nCoV patients are, there is a per province tally.

As of Monday afternoon, there were more than 40,000 people in China infected with the novel coronavirus. Most of them are in Hubei province, where the first cases of novel coronavirus were detected.

Of the 314 patients under investigation in the Philippines, 105 were in hospitals in Metro Manila. This was followed by Central Luzon with 27 PUIs in hospitals and Southern Tagalog (Region IV) with 26 patients.

Domingo said the tracker is real-time and will immediately reflect changes in the number of patients.

As of Monday, there were only 3 confirmed cases of novel coronavirus in the Philippines. One of them died, and the other two have already recovered and been discharged from hospitals.

All three are Chinese nationals who traveled to the Philippines for vacation. The DOH assured the public that it has strengthened its capacity to deal with possible local transmission.