CLOUDS continue to hang over the future for log exports to China.

The region’s forestry workforce has gone back to work but how long that will be for is the question.

The Forest Owners Association said in a statement that precautions in China against coronavirus had resulted in almost no offtake of logs in China for processing.

“Exporters understand that the remaining logyard space at most ports near processing centres has been quickly disappearing,” said Association president Peter Weir.

“Lack of space in Chinese ports is bringing a virtual halt to New Zealand log exports to China.

“Exporters had hoped that business would return to normal after the extended Lunar New Year holiday finished in China two weeks ago, but that hasn’t happened.

“Many Chinese sawmills are yet to get back to work and New Zealand exporters have nowhere else to send the industrial grade logs they harvest.”

Mr Weir said the South Korean market was also “chocka with logs”.

“The situation for logs to China is bleak in the short term and while the longer-term picture is really optimistic, that could be five years out.

“In the meantime, we need to ensure we look after our forestry workers, our port workers and stevedores and truck drivers.”

Tairawhiti forestry health and wellbeing advocate Wade Brunt, who works closely with forestry workers, said “as far as I’m aware everyone is currently working”.

“They are working but the situation is certainly not back to normal.”

Mr Brunt said worker situations varied.

“For some it’s a day-by-day situation. Others have reduced hours and others have one-to-two-weeks work ahead of them.

“For those with mortgages and young families, particularly, it’s a worrying time.”

The Forest Owners Association has welcomed the combined move involving Gisborne-Wairoa Federated Farmers and Eastland Wood Council to source alternative work for affected foresters.

“In Poverty Bay, we are delighted with the support we are receiving from local Federated Farmers,who are looking for jobs to employ forest workers,” Mr Weir said.

“Every few extra hours of income are most welcome.”

Eastland Wood Council chief executive Kim Holland said they had had offers of work from 10 members of the farming community and 15 other businesses in the region to date.

“These offers range from permanent seasonal full-time work through to casual work.”

Support for workers as reedundancy looms

Federated Farmers will also be promoting the work opportunities at the Wairoa Farming Expo this week.

“With the offers of work, we have been attempting to support those who are on reduced hours and days to supplement their reduced income and, where possible, to connect the work directly through the contractor to offset any employment contracts or tax implications,” Ms Holland said.

“Forestry companies will review harvesting operations at this end of this week as the effects of high log volumes on Chinese wharves and on ships will take some months to work through.

“So while people are working, with some on reduced hours and days, there will be redundancies. Some contractors are being proactive in seeking extra or alternative work for their crews.”

Mr Weir said the association’s members were not looking for handouts.

“But we do want to work out equitable ways for working with the Government to assist the various harvesting crews. They are ones who will need the help,” he said.

The multi-agency Governance Group set up to address the impact in Tairawhiti meets again on Thursday to consider material provided to them and updated information.

Mr Weir said the situation remained fluid, with different forest owners and management companies taking different approaches.

“NZFOA members are doing what we can to retain our skilled labour force by sending better logs to domestic sawmills to make up for the shortfall from farm woodlots where logging has already ceased.

“We continue to invest in the silvicultural work, including pruning, thinning and preparing recently-harvested land before replanting begins in May or June.

“Most members will continue building safe forest roads and landings to be harvest-ready when markets recover.

“But that may be some months away.”

Lack of space in Chinese ports is bringing a virtual halt to New Zealand log exports to China. File picture