In Cars, Honda, International News / By Gerard Lye / 2 September 2016 5:38 pm / 23 comments

Here it is then, the new Honda Gienia, which makes its official debut at the ongoing Chengdu International Auto Show. Our previous encounter with what can only be described as a City hatchback was back in June, where the model was leaked ahead of its public unveiling today.

The Gienia was previewed by Honda’s Concept B during the 2014 Beijing International Auto Show, and is based on the Honda City platform. The design appears to be identical to what we’ve seen earlier, with the large Solid Wing Face front-end accentuated by large chrome elements, black multi-slat grille and projector headlamps.

At the rear, standout items include the prominent combination taillights that span the width of the hatch, culminating in Civic FC-like units, along with a large spoiler just above it. Other exterior highlights include the reflector/rear fog lamp enclosures with chrome surrounds, five-spoke alloy wheels, front and rear parking sensors, as well as a reverse camera.

In terms of equipment, the Gienia comes with Honda’s LaneWatch blind-spot monitoring system, an electric sunroof, keyless entry, colour touchscreen infotainment unit and leather upholstery.

Official technical details have not been released as of yet, as the model will only be launched on October 18. However, it is reported that the Gienia will measure 4,517 mm long, 1,705 mm wide, 1,477 mm high, and have a wheelbase of 2,600 mm. Compared to its sedan equivalent, the Honda Greiz, it is only 22 mm shorter in overall length.

Under the hood, the Gienia will likely feature the carmaker’s 1.5 litre i-VTEC petrol engine, with 129 hp and 155 Nm of torque available. A five-speed manual gearbox is mated to the engine, with the option of a CVT.

According to the company, the Gienia is targeted at those born in the 1980s and 1990s, so the model should be appealing to the youthful crowd. What are your thoughts of the new Honda Gienia? Let us know in the comments below.



