The Foreign Ministry has revealed that they are working to move the seven Maldivians in Wuhan city of China to a safer location.



The ministry said the Maldivian Embassy in Beijing, China is closely monitoring the Maldivians in the Wuhan city of Hubei Province after the city has been locked down due to an outbreak of the coronavirus.



Foreign Ministry said the seven Maldivians in the city are in good health and that the ministry is seeking information on all Maldivians in China, especially students. They are being contacted through different platforms, assured the ministry.



State Minister of Foreign Affairs Ahmed Khaleel on Friday met with Chinese Ambassador to the Maldives, Zhang Lizhong to discuss moving the seven Maldivians in Wuhan city to another location. The Maldivian Embassy in China is also communicating with the Foreign Ministry of China to come to an arrangement, a statement released by the Maldivian Foreign Ministry read.



The Chinese Foreign Ministry has assured that the government would assist foreign students in Wuhan city and ensure their safety. While the authorities are checking on all international students via the universities and institutions they are enrolled at, the Chinese government has assured the Maldives government that they are closely monitoring the Maldivians in Wuhan city.



The Maldivian Foreign Ministry has requested all Maldivians in China to register with the Maldivian Embassy.



With the outbreak of Coronavirus, Wuhan city has been placed under quarantine according to the guidelines established by the World Health Organization (WHO). The Chinese government has barred 11 million residents from leaving the city and using public transportation until the outbreak is under control.



Similar to the SARS virus, human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus has now been confirmed in China. Chinese authorities said 845 cases from 13 provinces of the country have been recorded thus far and 25 people have died from the virus during the current outbreak.