The Chinese People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) aerobatics team due to perform at the Singapore Airshow from Feb. 11 to 16 has taken “proactive precautionary measures” while they were residing and training in Tianjin, China, Singapore’s Ministry of Defence (MINDEF) said.

Advertisement

The team has arrived in Singapore on Wednesday afternoon, Feb. 5, after setting off from North China, where the municipality of Tianjin is located, CCTV reported.

Ba Yi team to perform at airshow after “careful consideration”

In response to concerns over the Ba Yi (August 1st) team’s participation in the airshow, a spokesperson from MINDEF told Mothership on Thursday, Feb. 6 that after “careful consideration and medical assessment”, the aerobatics team can continue to take part in the airshow.

Ba Yi team to continue taking precautionary measures in Singapore

The spokesperson said that besides taking the relevant precautionary measures while in Tianjin, the Ba Yi team has also done the same during their military transport flight to Singapore, and went through temperature scanning as well.

They will further “undertake the necessary measures such as regular temperature and health monitoring during their stay in Singapore”, the spokesperson added.

Advertisement

Here’s MINDEF’s statement in full:

The Ba Yi aerobatics team’s participation in the Singapore Airshow 2020 was surfaced to the relevant goverment agencies. After careful consideration and medical assessment, it was decided that the Ba Yi team can continue to participate in SA2020. The Ba Yi team had taken proactive precautionary measures including regular health checks and medical screening while they were residing and training in their military base in Tianjin, China. They also took precautionary measures during their military transport flight to Singapore and undergone temperature screening. They will undertake the necessary measures such as regular temperature and health monitoring during their stay in Singapore.

Advertisement

Top image via