Analysis | Israelis dream of big U.S. IPOs but are swallowed by M&As instead. Over the past two decades, Israeli companies raised just $10 billion on Wall Street, compared to the $380 billion that changed hands as part of M&As. A new Barclays report sheds light on how Israeli companies take on New York. Read more

Comtech telecommunications acquires Gilat Satellite Networks for $532.5 million. Earlier this month, Calcalist reported that the Israeli satellite telecommunications company was in advanced talks to be acquired for approximately $579 million. Read more

Tel Aviv's skyline. Photo: Shutterstock

El Al halts all flights to China over coronavirus scare. The company intends to reopen its route to Beijing on March 25. Read more

Leading global investors to scout for Israeli technologies at the Axis Tel Aviv conference. Taking place for the sixth consecutive year, the conference will offer international investors a platform in which they can scout for investments in Israeli startups and entrepreneurs, as well as local talent. Read more

Marketing startup Yotpo acquires SMS marketing company SMSBump. SMSBump provides a messaging platform to companies that contact customers via texts to inform them of order status updates, special offers, and customized promotions. Read more

Fruit-ripeness analysis startup Clarifruit raises $6 million. ClariFruit develops a produce-monitoring mobile app that scans fruits and vegetables and analyzes their condition to determine whether they are ready to go to market. Read more

CyberTech Global Conference:

The most complex cyber threats come from China, Russia, and Iran, says Cybereason CTO. Watch the video

Corporations move fast while attackers move quickly making niche cyber startups important, says former unit 8200 director. Watch the video https://www.calcalistech.com/ctech/articles/0,7340,L-3785031,00.html

Ransomware attackers threaten to leak data, says IBM security advisor. Watch the video

Our Job Isn’t Only to Protect Corporations, But Also Assist With Digital Transformations, Says CyberArk CEO. Watch the video