"The sales seasons of green jujubes has already started. Green jujube production areas in Fujian experienced relatively little rainfall during the 2019 production season, which is why the sugar content of the green jujubes is much higher than in previous years. The production volume per 0.07 hectare was around 2 thousand kg this season. The overall production volume was more or less on the same level as last year."

Mr. Zhu of Small Fruit Craftsman E-commerce Co., Ltd. recently shared his view on the production and retail conditions in green jujube production areas in Fujian.

"The production season of green jujubes in Fujian production areas begins every year in September and continues until April in the subsequent year. The main production areas of green jujubes are in Fujian. The overall surface area devoted to green jujube plantation in Fujian totals 13,333 hectares. The green jujubes from Fujian are crisp and juicy. Their sugar content is high and they contain an abundance of vitamins and a variety of minerals. Although green jujubes are a relatively minor fruit in the Chinese fruit market and the overall production volume is not that big, still the fruit is quite popular with Chinese consumers," explained manager Zhu.

Small Fruit Craftsman E-commerce has many retail channels for green jujubes. "We mainly sell our green jujubes through wholesale markets, in particular through the second-tier wholesale markets of Jiangxi, Zhejiang, Guangdong, Jiangsu, and Wuhan. Apart from these wholesale markets, our green jujubes are also popular on e-commerce platforms. We sell large volumes of green jujubes through online retail channels every year. The rapid growth of online demand for green jujubes quickly raised the price of our products. This year the price of our green jujubes increased by 50% in comparison with the same time last year. The wholesale price of green jujubes is around 2.5-3 yuan [0.36-0.44 USD] per 0.5 kg."

When asked about the impact of winter jujubes from Xinjiang on the sales conditions of green jujubes from Fujian, manager Zhu explained, "The production season in Xinjiang and Fujian overlap. Furthermore, Chinese consumers are not as familiar with green jujubes from Fujian as they are with winter jujubes from Xinjiang. Therefore, the winter jujubes from Xinjiang, as one of the most important products in the jujube market, always have an important impact on the sales conditions of our green jujubes. We do not yet have the capacity to compete with winter jujubes from Xinjiang, but in the future we hope to establish a brand for green jujubes from Fujian, which will make our product known to a greater number of Chinese consumers," said manager Zhu.

For more information:

Mr. Zhu - Manager

Small Fruit Craftsman E-commerce Co., Ltd.

Tel.: +86 17759600002