视频播放位置 下载安装Flash播放器

A symposium entitled "China's Development Path in the New Era from Multiple Perspectives" was held at the University of Cambridge on Jan. 14, aiming to offer an understanding of the dynamics, opportunities and challenges involving the country today and focusing on a collection of works, such as Zhejiang, China: A New Vision for Development.

Over 50 scholars and experts from China, France and the United Kingdom, representatives of overseas Chinese and media representatives attended the event.

The symposium was organized by Cypress Book Co. (UK) Ltd. and Sinolingua London Ltd., co-organized by the Global Century Press and the Cambridge Chinese Community Center.

Xie Xiaocheng, managing director of Cypress, and Chai Wenjing, managing director of Sinolingua London, made welcome speeches at the opening, sharing their thoughts on China's development path from their own experiences and expressing the hope that the symposium would enable a deeper understanding of what was happening.

Ingrid Cranfield, president of Global Century Press and Li Jinzhao, founder of the Cambridge China Centre, also spoke briefly.

Three keynote speakers shared their thoughts and research discoveries on China issues. Dr. Joël Ruet, president of The Bridge Tank and an expert on the country's economy and foreign policy, spoke about the comprehensively deepening reform program it was undertaking. He thought that the collection of works provided a vivid intellectual chronicle of China's reforming theoretical system in the new era.

Based on corpora of Zhejiang, China: A New Vision for Development in Chinese and English editions, Prof. Chang Xiangqun FRSA, president of Global China Academy, analysed the theoretical and practical application of the governance system and China's capacity for governance at the provincial level.

Dr. Geng Zhi, lecturer at the Confucius Institute at Queen Mary University of London, spoke about the great contribution of language and cultural exchange to the establishment of a community with a shared future for humanity, and practice in China's development path is practised in the new era.

During a Q & A session, participants actively interacted with the speakers.

A "China book around the world" exhibition was held in Cambridge during the symposium, displaying titles relating to China's economy, politics, culture, education and social sciences, gaining great attention.