"In the case of Scarborough, Pluto and Browse we have the 'dream team' of contractors, the pricing is still competitive, we're brownfield, and those are the things that regardless what happens with pricing and tariffs mean we will be competitive and can be the preferred supplier," Ms Duhe said.

"So even if there is a full agreement between the US and China, we are still neutral around that, but it remains to be seen how it will work out."

Spot LNG prices in north Asia plunged 21 per cent overnight in thin trading, which NAB head of commodity research Lachlan Shaw put down to several large supply tenders hitting the weak market, combined with the China deal. The "JKM" futures price dropped to $US4.18 per million British thermal units, from $US5.295 Thursday.

But Santos chief executive Kevin Gallagher said the company, whose LNG output is underpinned by long-term contracts not the spot market, wouldn't be affected during the term of the $US200 billion two-year Phase 1 deal, of which the energy component will include crude oil, refined products and coal as well as LNG.

When it came to new LNG projects, he said brownfield investments such as Santos' Barossa gas project off Australia's northern coast that will supply the existing Darwin LNG plant were "very competitive" and located close to Asia, attracting strong interest from customers across the region.

"Australia has a long track record of safe and reliable LNG supply to Asia, strong joint venture partnerships with Asian companies and secure, low cost shipping routes to Asia that will stand Australia’s LNG industry in good stead for the future," Mr Gallagher said.

The US will need to take a 20 per cent share of China's $US270 billion oil and gas imports to reach the $US52.4 billion target for 2020 and 2021, said Bernstein Research analyst Neil Beveridge.

Advertisement

He said increased crude oil and LPG imports would be the only meaningful way to reach it, given it was "harder to move the needle" with LNG, where new export projects in the US would take 4-5 years to build and where most of China's imports are under long-term contracts.

Australia, which last year overtook Qatar to become the world's largest LNG exporter, is China's largest LNG suppler, meeting 38 per cent of its imports in December, according to consultancy EnergyQuest.

About 70 per cent of China's LNG demand over the next two years is already contracted, leaving little scope for LNG to meet much of the extra Chinese-US energy trade in the next two years.

Also, neither the 5 per cent tariff on US crude oil nor the 25 per cent tariff on US LNG is to be reduced or removed by China under the Phase 1 deal, noted Wood Mackenzie Asia-Pacific vice chair Gavin Thompson.

That would make it "challenging" for China to massively increase imports of oil and LNG from the US while tariffs remain in place, he said.

China could buy more US spot cargoes of LNG, but that would present "little more than a logistics optimisation exercise that's unlikely to materially impact pricing for Australia as other cargoes are swapped out," said Credit Suisse energy analyst Saul Kavonic.

He said Chinese buyers would likely remain wary of signing up to long-term LNG contracts from the US until there was more certainty on a stable trading environment with the US, and given the two-year commitments couldn't be met anyway by new US LNG projects, which would only start mid 2020s.

Advertisement

"So any appetite for long-term LNG contracts in China may remain focused on sources outside the US, such as Australia, for the time being," Mr Kavonic said.

Bernstein expects crude oil and LNG shipping companies would be the big winners given the re-orientation of trade flows required to reach the two-year energy trade target between the US and China.

Mr Beveridge said it would be largely positive for LNG and LPG producers in the US and infrastructure-related companies, but "mostly negative" for Middle East oil and LNG producers, West African oil producers and potentially Asian refiners where energy flows will need to be redirected to other markets.

Under the Phase 1 deal, China will buy at least $US18.5 billion of extra US energy products in 2020 compared with 2017, then at least an extra $US33.9 billion in 2021, again compared with 2017.