On February 15, 2020 local time, while attending the 56th Munich Security Conference in Germany, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi interacted with the audience after delivering a speech. Chairman Wolfgang Ischinger of the Munich Security Conference said, Secretary of State Michael Pompeo of the United States (US) and some others have just criticized China for various reasons, which is unfair to China. Instead, China deserves more understanding and support from the international community rather than accusations and fear. Wolfgang Ischinger asked Wang Yi about his comment on the current situation and prospect of China-US relations.

Wang Yi expressed, I have heard about that two US senior officials made accusations and smear about China here again. It seems that wherever they go, they will repeat their complaints. I want to make clear that all the US side’s accusations against China are lies, not based on facts. But if we change the subject of the lies to the US, these lies would become the truth, based on the facts. We hope the US, as a superpower, would not lose too much self-confidence or reason.

Wang Yi noted, China and the US established their diplomatic relations over 40 years ago. Indeed, there have been some problems in bilateral relations, some of which arose autonomously from bilateral exchanges, whereas others were entirely man-made. The root cause of those problems lies in the fact that some people in the US are reluctant to accept the rapid development and the success of China as a major socialist country in particular. However, this is unfair, as China has the right to develop itself and the Chinese people have the right to live a better life. China's modernization is an inevitable historical trend, which represents the advancing direction of human civilization, and cannot be stopped by any force. With our splendid Chinese culture accumulated in the past 5,000 years, the diligence and wisdom of our 1.4 billion people, the selfless dedication of 90 million members of the Communist Party of China, and with our institutional advantages of socialism with Chinese characteristics, we will surely eliminate all the disturbances, realize the Two Centenary Goals as scheduled and the Chinese dream of the great renewal of the Chinese nation.

Wang Yi stressed, China's development strengthens forces to safeguard world peace and contributes to global stability, which should be welcomed by the international community. The Chinese side is willing to work with the US side to advance bilateral relations based on coordination, cooperation and stability, on the basis of equality and mutual respect. An important task now is that both sides should sit down for serious dialogues and find out an interactive mode which allows the two big countries with different social systems to coexist peacefully and have win-win cooperation. China is ready for that. And we hope the US side to meet China halfway. Once this goal is achieved, it will contribute to the wellbeing of both the Chinese and the US people, and all countries of the world at large. Only by doing this can we effectively cope with all the global challenges, ensure better development of the only planet we live in, and realize the prospect of a community with a shared future for mankind.