Questo comunicato è stato pubblicato più di 30 giorni fa. Le informazioni su questa pagina potrebbero non essere attendibili.

The Global Over the Air Updates Market for automotive is expected to exhibit a strong 15% CAGR over the forecast period from 2018 to 2025, according to the latest research report from Market Research Future (MRFR). The global automotive over the air updates market is analyzed fully in the report, which takes a look at the comprehensive performance figures of the market over the last few years to present a detailed review of the market’s key drivers, leading players, and dominant segments.

The automotive over the air updates market has rapidly risen in stature to become a key component of the global automotive industry over the last few years. The growing use of electronics in vehicles and the growing demand for automated electronic monitoring of the vehicle have led to a growing demand from the global automotive over the air updates market. The growing demand for autonomous and connected vehicles is likely to be a key driver for the global automotive over the air updates market over the forecast period, as autonomous and connected cars rely heavily on their software programming to ensure steady performance and safety of the car’s occupants.

On the other hand, the difficulties in building a suitable software architecture for over the air updates in the automotive sector have held the market back. The risk of cybercrimes through automotive software systems is also quite high, which is likely to be a key restraint for the global automotive over the air updates market over the forecast period. Developing secure architecture of automotive over the air updates is likely to be a key avenue for players in the global automotive over the air updates market over the forecast period.

Competitive Analysis:

Leading players in the global automotive over the air updates market include Infineon Technologies AG, Garmin Ltd., Denso Corporation, Continental AG, Airbiquity Inc., Microsoft Corporation, NVIDIA Corporation, Delphi Automotive, Robert Bosch GmbH, and HARMAN International.

In May 2019, General Motors announced that it is working on building a comprehensive software platform for its cars that can be regularly updated over the air. GM’s platform is expected to be incorporated into their automobiles by 2023.

Segmentation:

The global automotive over the air updates market is segmented on the basis of technology, application, propulsion, vehicle type, and region.

On the basis of technology, the global automotive over the air updates market is segmented into firmware over-the-air technology (FOTA) and software over-the-air technology (SOTA).

On the basis of application, the global automotive over the air updates market is segmented into electronic control unit (ECU), infotainment, safety & security, telematics control unit (TCU), and others.

On the basis of propulsion, the market is segmented into ICE and electric vehicles. The electric vehicles segment is further sub-segmented into battery electric vehicles (BEV), hybrid electric vehicles (HEV), and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV).

On the basis of vehicle type, the global automotive over the air updates market is segmented into passenger cars and commercial vehicles.

Regional Analysis:

Asia Pacific is expected to dominate the global automotive over the air updates market over the forecast period due to the growing automotive industry in the region. The growing demand for automotive electronics in the region is also likely to be a key driver for the automotive over the air updates market in the region over the forecast period, as the growing disposable income of consumers in this region has driven the demand for premium facilities in automobiles, including advanced automotive electronics and telematics.

Moreover, the increasing demand for electric vehicles in China is also likely to be a major driver for the automotive over the air updates market in Asia Pacific over the forecast period. China has been a leader in developing electric vehicle technology in recent years, leading to growing demand for advanced software support for automotive operations.

North America and Europe are also likely to be major players in the global automotive over the air updates market over the forecast period due to the presence of several leading market players in the region.