KUALA LUMPUR: Gerakan will remain a third force in the country's political arena as it places importance on the party's ideology, says president Datuk Dr Dominic Lau.

Lau said after Gerakan had exited the Barisan Nasional coalition, it is still positioning itself as the third force in the nation's political scene.

"The principles and ideology of the party are very clear and simple.

"We are going for the stability of politics in our country and we fight for all, irrespective of race, religion or culture," Lau told reporters after hosting Gerakan's Chinese New Year open house on Saturday (Jan 25).

Lau said this when asked if Gerakan will be joining or cooperating with Pakatan Harapan, following the attendance of Prime Minister Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad at the party's open house on Saturday.

Also present were Dr Mahathir's wife Tun Dr Siti Hasmah Mohd Ali, Economics Affairs Minister Datuk Seri Azmin Ali and wife Datin Seri Shamsidar Taharin.

Lau said it has always been Gerakan's tradition to invite the Prime Minister to attend the party's Chinese New Year open house every year.

Dr Mahathir's presence at this year's open house has been rather significant, said Lau.

"We invited the Prime Minister to the open house last year but Tun did not attend.

"This year, he attended and it is very significant and good for the party," said Lau.

When asked to comment on former Gerakan secretary-general Datuk Liang Teck Meng who was unhappy that Lau had invited Dr Mahathir to attend the open house, Lau said it did not go against the party's principles.

"Principles are whatever addressed and listed down in our ideology. The principle is not a personal principle.

"It cannot be your own agenda, whatever spelled out in our (Gerakan) ideology, these are the nine principles we are fighting for.

"If anybody says we don't have principles, then please point out which principle we are against in Gerakan's (principles)," he said.

Liang had quoted Lau calling Dr Mahathir the "most racist prime minister in Malaysian history" less than three months ago.

In a Facebook post, Liang had said: "The most racist PM (quoted by president) is coming to celebrate the Chinese New Year with Gerakanists.

"I wonder he may get more claps or boos when he steps into the hall," said Liang.