Source: Xinhua| 2020-02-05 15:42:37|Editor: xuxin

Video Player Close

PHNOM PENH, Feb. 5 (Xinhua) -- Eighty-six Cambodian families, whose children had received free heart surgeries in China donated more than 5,000 masks to Chinese doctors to help them fight against the novel coronavirus, an organizer said.

Chea Monyrith, manager of the congenital heart disease project in Cambodia, said the families sent a total of 5,021 masks, including 5,001 surgical masks, to Fuwai Yunnan Cardiovascular Hospital in southwest China's Yunnan Province on Tuesday.

The children with congenital heart disease in these families had received free surgeries and treatment at the hospital under the "China-Cambodia Love Heart Journey" program.

"The number of masks they donated is not large, and if calculated into money, it's not much, but this truly reflects their profound gratitude and sympathy to Chinese doctors for having saved their children's lives," Monyrith told Xinhua.

Demand for masks has soared in China due to the coronavirus outbreak. The overall confirmed cases on the Chinese mainland had reached 24,324 by the end of Tuesday, China's National Health Commission said, noting that a total of 490 people had died of the disease.

Lor Dany, whose 8-year-old son with congenital heart disease was treated by Chinese doctors in May, said he bought 100 masks for the hospital.

"I know my contribution is very little because I'm poor, but this is what I can do to show my sincere thanks to Chinese doctors for providing a free surgery to my son," he said. "Without their help, my son's life would be in danger."

"I hope China will be able to control the virus as soon as possible," said the resident of southern Takeo province.

Dany said Chinese doctors took good care of his son at Fuwai for 15 days while he underwent surgery and treatment.

His son has fully recovered from the disease. "I will never forget their kindness towards my son. They give him new life and hope," he said.

Sem Vanna, whose 12-year-old nephew was treated by Chinese doctors late last year, said he donated 100 surgical masks to the hospital.

"They saved my nephew's life, and now, they are in difficulty, we must help them back," he said. "We wish them good health to continue to save the lives of other patients."