A Formula 1 Canadian billionaire has saved Aston Martin from almost certain collapse as he leads a £500 million bailout of the troubled car maker.

Aston Martin confirmed plans to sell a £182million stake in the business to Canadian billionaire Lawrence Stroll, 60, after the board held an emergency meeting last night.

The luxury car maker, famed for being James Bond's favourite marque, has been in talks to secure funding by selling a chunk of the business to a strategic investor for several months.

Aston Martin also announced a £318million rights issue supported by major shareholders. Shares jumped on Friday to close 24 per cent higher £4.98.

Aston Martin confirmed plans to sell a £182million stake in the business to Canadian billionaire Lawrence Stroll (pictured with his wife Claire-Anne) after the board held an emergency meeting last night

The cash injection prevents Aston Martin from going bust for the eighth time in its 107-year history.

Stroll, owner of Formula One team Racing Point, bought a 16.7 per cent stake, with the option of increasing to 20 per cent once the rights issue takes place. He will also provide £55.5million of short-term working capital.

The sale comes as Aston Martin is struggling to stay afloat after a disastrous stock market debut in October 2018.

In the first year of being listed its shares lost 75 per cent of their value, after its initial listing price of £19 per share was vastly overvalued and it subsequently released a slew of disappointing updates and a rescue financing.

Stroll, owner of Formula One team Racing Point, bought a 16.7 per cent stake, with the option of increasing to 20 per cent once the rights issue takes place

The cash injection prevents Aston Martin from going bust for the eighth time in its 107-year history. Pictured: An Aston Martin DBS Superleggera

The 107-year-old group is pinning any hopes of a recovery on the performance of its £158,000 SUV, the DBX, launched in November.

Stroll, who owns F1 team Racing Point, made his $2.6bn (£2bn) fortune through investing in fashion houses such as Tommy Hilfiger and Michael Kors.

As well as his base in Geneva, he has homes in London, Quebec and on the Caribbean island of Mustique, according to the Telegraph.

He collects vintage Ferraris and more recently has taken an increasing role in the high-octane world of motor sport.

In December rumours surfaced that Stroll, whose son Lance is a Formula 1 driver, would take a stake in the famous brand.

Aston Martin chair Penny Hughes said: 'The difficult trading performance in 2019 resulted in severe pressure on liquidity which has left the Company with no alternative but to seek substantial additional equity financing. Without this the balance sheet is not robust enough to support the operations of the group.

'Notwithstanding recent weak trading, the strength of the Aston Martin brand and our expanding portfolio of cars has allowed us to attract a strong new partner in Mr. Stroll to support the turnaround of the business.'

Stroll is set to join the company's board as executive chairman, replacing Hughes, as part of the deal.

He said their investment 'underpins the company's financial security and ensures it will be operating from a position of financial strength.'

Andy Palmer, Aston Martin president and group chief executive, said the past year had been 'regrettably disappointing' and said the fundraising was necessary to support the long-term future of the company.

Stroll is set to join the company's board as executive chairman, replacing Hughes, as part of the deal

Stroll made his $2.6bn (£2bn) fortune through a series of investments in the global expansion of fashion brands

Markets.com analyst Neil Wilson questioned whether Stroll's £55million short-term cash injection will be enough to prop up Aston Martin.

'It will do a lot to alleviate immediate cash flow concerns – not least the fact that earlier this month it reported net debt and leverage ranges of £875m-£885m and 6.2-6.8x respectively,' he said.

'However, Aston could well have to go cap in hand to investors again if the sales of its DBX don't take off.'

'Planned launches of electric vehicles are going to be delayed – they will require a lot of investment and it risks falling behind peers in this space at a critical juncture of EV take-off.'