"The provocation of Philippines, Malaysia and Vietnam show a clear pattern. Now China has decided it's time to push south again and poke Indonesia,” Dr Graham said.

Indonesia's economic links with China have deepened substantially in recent years, with the powerful northern neighbour an important source of much-needed foreign investment across the economy.

The country is funding big-ticket infrastructure projects such as the $US7.6 billion ($11 billion) high-speed train from Bandung to Jakarta, and is also important to Indonesia’s ambition to move up the manufacturing value chain.

But the aggressive move by China in Natuna has mobilised simmering anti-Chinese sentiment in the country. #NatunaMilikIndonesia - "Natuna is Indonesia-owned" - has been trending since Saturday on Twitter.

Many were angered by the language used by China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang after Indonesia initial's complaint. In a press briefing, Mr Geng said Chinese fishermen were free to fish in their “traditional” fishing area, which partly overlaps Indonesia’s exclusive economic zone (EEZ), because China’s “position and propositions comply with international law, including UNCLOS [the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea]”.

“So whether the Indonesian side accepts it or not, nothing will change the objective fact that China has rights and interests over the relevant waters,” Geng Shuang said.

President Widodo has wide public support for his defence of sovereignty and maritime boundaries.

Advertisement

The actions taken over the past few weeks echo Indonesia’s response three years ago when Chinese fishermen last stirred up trouble in the North Natuna Sea.

The call now is for a new strategy, one that rests on the President and a united approach by a Cabinet where several prominent ministers are thought by many to be too close to China.

“The big question is whether it will make Jokowi act? Will it make him more strategic, more externally orientated and more political in his relations with other SE Asian nations,” Dr Graham says.

Evan Laksmana, a senior researcher at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Jakarta, has warned that if the country cannot deal with China "comprehensively, coherently and consistently, Indonesia will fumble in the age of great power politics and its strategic environment will deteriorate".

In a strongly worded column in The Jakarta Post newspaper on Wednesday, Laksmana urged Jokowi’s government to create a special office to deal with such strategic policy challenges, determine a "real, strategic outcome" in changing China's behaviour in the Natuna waters, boost its co-ordination with Malaysia and Vietnam on maritime matters and increase engagement with other middle powers, including Australia, Japan, India and South Korea.

But first the President needs his Cabinet behind him. On Friday, Defence Minister Prabowo Subianto played down the significance of the dispute. He told reporters he thought there would a good solution to the standoff. “China is a friendly country,” he said.

On Tuesday, Luhut Binsar Pandjaitan, Co-ordinating Minister for Maritime Affairs and Investment, lashed out against criticism that he was soft on China.

"Don't say I trade sovereignty for investment. I am not a fool," he said.