Editor: Wang Liyan

Women level soil on a farm in Zouma Town, Nanchong City, Southwest China's Sichuan Province. [For Women of China]

While doing the work of prevention and control of the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) well, the women's federations nationwide have mobilized women to begin agricultural production as the spring ploughing season approaches.

SW China's Chongqing Municipality

Motivated by the Women's Federation of Chongqing Municipality, Tan Haiyan, secretary of Chushui Village in Chongqing, leads local women to carry out agricultural production while doing the work of epidemic prevention well.

Tan has motivated the local women to cultivate 218 mu (about 145,333 square meters) of various kinds of vegetable seedlings, which will be planted on 5,000 mu (about 3 square kilometers) of farmland.

They have also stored 1,500 metric tons of organic fertilizer and 102 metric tons of plastic mulch, effectively promoting vegetable breeding and the supply of agricultural resources.

SW China's Guizhou Province

"Check the body temperature before work. Wear a facial mask. Only those with normal temperature can work on the farm. People need to keep at arm's length from each other," said Luo Qiaolian, deputy director of the village committee of Zhongxin Village in Ziyun Miao and Bouyei Autonomous County in Southwest China's Guizhou Province.

After a brief training on epidemic preventive measures before farming, Luo and other female villagers wearing masks went to work in the vegetable planting bases in the village group by group.

According to Luo, about 20 people are allowed to work in the field in a scattered manner every day to ensure their safety.

Beijing

In Beijing, the women's agricultural bases supported by the Beijing Women's Federation sell fresh vegetables and fruits at fair prices.

Every day, 11 bases in the Beijing's Changping District supply a variety of vegetables and fruit, such as strawberries, apples, pears and mushrooms.

Shi Liming, a female entrepreneur in Changping District, have been donating all the profits from her company's sales of strawberries to support the fight against the novel coronavirus (COVID-19).

A crop planting cooperative in the Tongzhou District launched an online ordering service, which enables people to order vegetables and fruits online and get them at its offline stores in communities.

SE China's Fujian Province

In Southeast China's Fujian Province, women are encouraged to resume work and production by the Women's Federation of Fujian Province.

Lin Jie, general manager of Zhangzhou Oasis Agricultural Development Co. Ltd, has taken several measures to resume production in a safe way, such as disinfection of transport vehicles, regular temperature checks, and allocation of masks.

Meanwhile, intelligent facilities have been adopted to ease the shortage of labor during the epidemic outbreak.

In addition, local government departments have offered support to solve the difficulties in transporting agricultural products to other provinces.

(Source: China Women's News/Translated and edited by Women of China)