President Rodrigo Duterte is not inclined to sign any treaty similar to the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) with China or any other country because he wants the Philippines to stand on its own, his spokesman said.

Palace spokesman Salvador Panelo said Duterte rejected the idea of forging military alliances with other nations, particularly China.

“Sabi niya (He said), ‘No.’ Tinanong ko siya, eh. Ibig sabihin talagang desidido siya doon.

Tumayo na tayo sa sarili nating kakayanan (I asked him. That means he’s decided. We should stand on our own). If we have to spend more, then we’ll spend more,” Panelo said in an interview with ABS-CBN News Channel.

“Ayaw niya talaga (President Duterte really doesn’t want it),” the Palace official added.

Panelo, who also serves as Duterte’s top legal counsel, reiterated that Duterte wanted to strengthen the country’s defense capabilities.

“Kung lumapit sila at mag-offer ng ganito at makakatulong sa atin… Alam mo, sabi ni Presidente, ‘Basta palaging national interest and general welfare, kung makakatulong sa atin, payag ako diyan’ (If they approach us and offer us something that can help us… You know, the President said he is for anything that will be beneficial to us and will promote our national interest and general welfare),” he said.

Since assuming the presidency in June 2016, Duterte’s foreign policy has so far been marked by increased engagements with Russia and China.

Last week, the Philippines officially notified Washington that it was terminating the military agreement.

The VFA, signed in February 1998, stipulates conditions for the conduct of visit of United States forces to the Philippines.

The agreement, which was deemed by Duterte as disadvantageous to the Philippines, will be terminated 180 days after Washington received the formal termination notice.

Panelo said it was time to scrap the VFA, noting that the Philippines could not improve its defense capabilities if it kept on relying on its allies.

“Ilang taon na tayong ganito, na-strengthen ba natin? Hindi. Kasi umaasa nga tayo, eh (We’ve had that for so many years, have we strengthened our defense? No. Because we kept on relying on them),” he said.