Xi thanks US for support in fight vs. nCoV 0 SHARES Share it! Share Tweet

By Raymund Antonio

Chinese President Xi Jinping expressed gratitude to the United States for its support and other forms of assistance in the fight against the 2019-novel coronavirus or nCoV.

A report from Chinese state media Xinhua said Xi thanked US President Donald Trump in a phone call on Friday morning.

While he noted the “maintained communication” between the two countries, Xi appreciated “Trump’s positive comments on China’s efforts on multiple occasions,” it said on Sunday.

The Chinese president was “grateful for the supplies donated by various sections of US society,” Xinhua added.

Xi underscored the need for the countries worldwide to pool their efforts in the prevention and control of the global virus outbreak, which he recognized, is currently at a crucial stage.

“China hopes that the United States will assess the epidemic in a calm manner, and adopt and adjust its response measures in a reasonable way,” Xi said in a report by Xinhua.

The two countries, he added, can “maintain communication, strengthen coordination, and work together to contain the epidemic.”

Trump expressed confidence in the ability of China under Xi’s leadership to address the epidemic.

“The fact that China completed building special hospitals for novel coronavirus patients in an incredibly short time is impressive, and shows China’s outstanding organizational and response capabilities,” it said.

China has carried out national mobilization, across-the-board deployment and swift responses, adopted the most comprehensive and rigorous prevention and control measures, and launched a people’s war against the epidemic, Xi said.

The new coronavirus has killed 813 people and infected over 37,000 people in 25 countries, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).

China has the most number of confirmed cases, with 40,171, followed by Singapore, 43; Thailand, 32; Japan, 26, Korea, 25; Malaysia, 16; Australia, 15; Germany, 14; Vietnam, 13; U.S, 12; France, 11; Canada and United Arab Emirates, with 7 each; among others.

Tags: ncov