Sign up to FREE email alerts from Wales Online - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

Pupils who have travelled to China have been barred from a small number of schools in Wales because of fears over the coronavirus, WalesOnline has learned.

The action has prompted the Welsh Government to write to directors of education in all 22 councils across Wales, telling them they should not exclude children who have visited China recently.

It is understood that the schools excluding children are mainly in north Wales and that the pupils had been told not to come in to classes after visiting parts of China outside the main areas affected in Hubei Province, including Wuhan where the outbreak started.

The letter sent to directors of education says: “The Welsh Government understands that a small number of schools are excluding Chinese pupils who are well, but have travelled to mainland China (outside Hubei Province including Wuhan).

“Schools should not exclude these children. Directors of education are asked to ensure that this message is communicated to all of their schools.”

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

The letter, passed on to schools, also gives the latest guidance from Public Health Wales which is:

“People returning from Wuhan or Hubei province should self-isolate for 14 days, even if they do not have symptoms, due to the increased risk from that area.

“They should call NHS Direct Wales on 0845 46 47 or phone Wales 111 if available in their area, for further advice.

“People returning from elsewhere in China (but not Macao or Hong Kong) who develop flu-like symptoms however mild, (these symptoms could be a fever, a cough, or difficulty breathing) within 14 days of their return, should self-isolate at home immediately and call NHS Direct Wales on 0845 46 47 or phone Wales 111 if available in their area.”

Councils said they have also been advising contacting headteachers advising them to follow the advice from Public Health Wales as the lead agency on the coronavirus.

Universities across Wales, who have links to China and Chinese students, have also issued advice on the coronavirus.

A Bangor University spokesman said: “The university is currently monitoring the situation and are following the advice provided by the government and public health organisations.

“We have reminded students and staff travelling abroad as part of their work or study to follow the specific advice provided for the destinations they will be travelling to, and are directing staff and students to the comprehensive advice issued by the NHS, Public Health Wales and Government.

“We are not aware of any staff or students that have been to the Wuhan area during the last few weeks.”

A Swansea University spokeswoman said: “We have issued advice to all our staff and students regarding the coronavirus outbreak after receiving guidance from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and Public Health Wales.

“As we are aware members of the University community may be concerned about the wellbeing of family and friends in China, we are providing access to advice, support and guidance for both staff and students.”

Cardiff University’s latest statement said: “Ensuring the safety and welfare of Cardiff University students is a priority and we are monitoring the coronavirus situation as it unfolds.

“We are following the latest advice from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, World Health Organisation and Public Health Wales and have shared that with our staff and students via the intranet.

“Unless notified otherwise, all scheduled university events will go ahead as advertised.”