LaHood talks trade optimism, impeachment

Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close LaHood talks trade optimism, impeachment 1 / 1 Back to Gallery

U.S. Rep. Darin LaHood expressed optimism Thursday about the state of trade negotiations with the U.S.’s fellow North American countries and China, and explained why he decided to vote against the articles of impeachment against President Donald Trump.

The articles passed the House of Representatives and a trial now is being conducted in the U.S. Senate.

LaHood, who serves on the House’s Ways and Means Committee — which has authority over U.S. trade — has been a supporter of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement. The USMCA passed both the House and Senate with bipartisan support and Trump is expected to sign the agreement Wednesday.

It adds provisions on issues — such as technology and cross-border data flow — the North American Free Trade Agreement did not cover when it was negotiated, LaHood said, adding that the agreement also opens up Canadian markets for U.S. agricultural goods — such as dairy, wheat and pork — that previously faced tariffs and other trade barriers. LaHood referred to the USMCA as the largest trade agreement the U.S. has ever negotiated.

A USMCA rules-of-origin provision for truck manufacturing also will help American manufacturing, LaHood said. The provision requires an increased percentage of materials used to build trucks sold in the U.S. must come from the U.S. The provision ensures that there are markets to which to send U.S.-made truck parts, LaHood said.

“This is a good agreement for agriculture, it’s a good agreement for manufacturing and it’s a good agreement for financial services, too,” LaHood said.

Because 40% of the products Illinois grows, produces and manufactures goes to Canada or Mexico, LaHood said, he expects the trade agreement to create jobs in his district.

In an easing of a trade war started in 2018, the U.S. also signed a Phase 1 trade deal with China. While Congress didn’t vote on the agreement, LaHood was involved in the process as a member of the Ways and Means Committee and as co-chair of the House’s U.S.-China Working Group.

The tariffs the two countries placed on each other closed off the market for farmers in his district, he said, noting the new deal opens up the market for corn and soybeans. The deal is expected to lead to close to $16 billion in agriculture purchases over the next two years, he said.

“Trade with China is vitally important to our farmers — 25% of the soybeans grown in Morgan County got to China every year,” he said.

The deal with China does not address forced technology transfers, under which the U.S. believes China is stealing U.S. technology, but those will be addressed in Phase 2, LaHood said.

LaHood emphasized the accomplishment of the U.S. reaching trade deals with the United States’ four major trading partners — China, Canada, Mexico and Japan, with whom the U.S. signed a trade deal Jan. 1.

On impeachment, LaHood — a former federal prosecutor — said he read the documents and the whistle-blower report on Trump’s call to the Ukrainian president and he believes the threshold for high crimes and misdemeanors was not met. LaHood views impeachment as the nuclear option and sees the current process as a waste of time, he said.

He prefers the 2020 election to decide Trump’s fate.

“Under our Constitution, the power is in the people,” LaHood said. “Let’s let the election decide this is my view on this.”

LaHood said looking into corruption in Ukraine, which is what Trump claims he was doing, is part of Trump’s presidential duties. LaHood asked if every president’s phone calls to foreign leaders could meet the standards of behavior placed on Trump.

“If we scrutinized every phone call that every president had made to a foreign leader — whether that was President Obama or President Bush or President Clinton,” LaHood said, “you’d want to impeach every president.”

He believes the impeachment effort stems from some Democrats’ efforts to undo the 2016 election, he said.

LaHood also encouraged people in his district fill out the U.S. Census and said he is looking forward to working on a federal infrastructure bill and addressing the high cost of health care this year.