Three Utawarerumono Games Are Coming to PC in 2020

Tomas Franzese January 6, 2020 11:42 AM EST

DMM Games will release Utawarerumono: Mask of Deception and Utawarerumono: Mask of Truth for Steam on January 23, 2020.

While the Utawarerumono series originated on PC in 2002, its more recent entries have avoided the platform. Utawarerumono: Mask of Deception and Utawarerumono: Mask of Truth only released for PS3, PS4, and PS Vita and they both came westward with the help of Atlus in 2017. Today, DMM Games’ localization team ShiraVN revealed that Utawarerumono: Mask of Deception, Utawarerumono: Mask of Truth and a re-release of the original called Utawarerumono: Prelude to the Fallen will all hit Steam this year.

Utawarerumono: Mask of Deception and Utawarerumono: Mask of Truth are poised to arrive quite soon actually, as both are releasing on January 23. Wizardry: Labyrinth of Lost Souls is coming to Steam just beforehand as well, so this should a good month for JRPG fans on PC. That being said, the Utawarerumono titles differ from Wizardry as they are turn-based tactics RPGs with a bit of visual novel flair thrown in.

All three PC ports of Aquaplus’ RPGs feature Japanese, English, and Traditional Chinese, which should give them a wider appeal to players around the world. While Utawarerumono: Mask of Deception and Utawarerumono: Mask of Truth come out in just over two weeks, those of you that are anticipating Utawarerumono: Prelude to the Fallen’s PC launch will have to wait a bit longer. For now, DMM Games only gave Prelude to the Fallen a vague 2020 release and believes it will not arrive until the console versions of it have already launched.

Utawarerumono Zan, which came to PS4 earlier this year with the help of NIS America, was not mentioned anywhere in this announcement. As you wait for this PC ports to finally release, you should check out DualShockers’ reviews for Utawarerumono: Mask of Deception and Utawarerumono: Mask of Truth. Those two games will release on January 23 while a re-release of Utawarerumono: Prelude to the Fallen is launching for PC and consoles later on in 2020.