Sign up to FREE email alerts from SomersetLive - Daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

Britons returning from coronavirus-hit Wuhan in China will be put in quarantine for 14 days.

Officials are looking at taking passengers to a military base once they arrive home, the Department of Health said.

A flight is due to leave Wuhan in China on Thursday.

Passengers may be asked to sign a contract before they board the plane saying they agree to being placed in quarantine.

Anyone who does not wish to sign could be asked to stay.

Around 200 British nationals are thought to be in the Chinese city.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock tweeted: "We are working hard to get British nationals back from Wuhan. Public safety is the top priority.

"Anyone who returns from Wuhan will be safely isolated for 14 days, with all unnecessary medical attention."

It comes as British Airways suspends all flights to and from mainland China.

In a statement, British Airways said: "We have suspended all flights to and from mainland China with immediate effect following advice from the Foreign Office against all but essential travel.

"We apologise to customers for the inconvenience, but the safety of our customers and crew is always our priority.

"Customers due to travel to or from China in the coming days can find more information on ba.com."

BA operates daily flights to Shanghai and Beijing from Heathrow.

Culture Secretary Baroness Morgan said BA's decision to suspend all flights to China would give "more impetus" to the Government's bid to arrange for Britons to travel home.

"The Foreign Office will be working with staff on the ground to identify UK nationals," the Conservative peer told BBC Breakfast.

"We will get people home as soon as we can, as soon as we can make arrangements.

"Obviously, today's decision by British Airways provides more impetus to the Government to make other plans and communicate those.

"The health system is well prepared. We are not aware of any confirmed cases of the virus here in the UK but we do have the expertise to look after people, to treat and to test should that become necessary."

Nick House, a British national living in Wuhan with his Indonesian wife and two British children, told Sky News: "We would like to be out of here. The man on the other end of the phone said 'Yes, you are on the list, but unfortunately your wife probably won't be able to get on the plane because she doesn't have a visa at the moment'.

"I won't leave without my wife, so essentially the Government are leaving three British people here for the sake of one seat on a plane."

Virgin Atlantic said its flights between Heathrow and Shanghai will continue to operate as scheduled, although passengers are able to rebook or obtain a refund free of charge.

The airline issued a statement which read: "We continue to monitor the situation regarding coronavirus and will always follow guidance as set out by relevant authorities. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office is advising against all but essential travel to mainland China, excluding Hong Kong.

"For customers who have booked to travel to China, including Hong Kong, and would like to discuss their travel plans further, we would invite them to contact our customer care team via our SMS messaging system, on +44 (0)7481 339184. The team are happy to assist with any inquiries."

Rory Boland, Which? Travel editor, said: "British Airways' decision to cancel flights to and from China is understandable following the Foreign Office travel warning.

"But a lack of clear information about what this means for BA passengers currently in China and due to fly home with the airline in the coming days is going to cause distress.

"These passengers will be worried that they are now stranded. BA and the Foreign Office must urgently clarify what options it can provide to customers - particularly those already in China - so they can amend their plans accordingly and get home."

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

A Government source said around 200 Britons were in Wuhan but not all may want to return to the UK.

When they return they will be "safely isolated" and will spend a fortnight in quarantine.

"I think it's going to be a military base," the source said.

"We have got the facility ready for them to arrive."

Chinese airlines which serve UK airports such as Heathrow, Gatwick and Manchester - including Air China, China Southern Airlines, China Eastern Airlines, Hainan Airlines and Tianjin Airlines - all appear to be operating flights as normal.