MANILA — An official of the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) said on Tuesday the government is ready to repatriate all Filipinos in China – Hubei province and Wuhan – under the condition that they will be in quarantine upon arrival.

“We’re planning to repatriate all those Filipinos we can. That’s the order of the president, let us bring home everyone safely, especially those repatriated from Wuhan and Hubei province,” DFA Undersecretary for Civilian Security and Consular Concerns Brigido Dulay said in a press briefing at the Department of Health (DOH) main office following the first Interagency Task Force on Emerging Infectious Diseases meeting.

DOH Secretary Francisco Duque III said the meeting was attended by officials from the departments of foreign affairs, local and interior government, justice, labor and employment, tourism, transportation and information, and communication technology.

Duque added the Chinese authorities have issued travel restrictions to Hubei province while Wuhan is in lockdown.

“We respect the decision of the Chinese government…we have to make that we are to monitor the further developments their government will be issuing out,” he said.

Dulay said they are now asking their consulates in China to come up with the total number and names of Filipinos who want to go home under that condition.

“For the Hubei province, the number now is a little over 300, for Wuhan is around 150 Filipinos. As you know, these exact figures are hard to come by because these people don’t really check in with the embassy or consulate, and the only people who will have the real numbers are those in the immigration department of the host department” he said.

Meanwhile, Duque assured Filipinos in China that the government will take care of them whether they choose to return home or stay.

“For those who choose to return, you will be taken care of in a health facility for monitoring and further medical management,” he said.

Duque advised the Filipinos who choose to stay in China to adhere to the local health advisories and cooperate with the local authorities conducting public health activities.

“The DOH will ensure that all Filipinos in other countries will receive sufficient information and health support through telemedicine,” he said.