Naadam’s venture as a company began with a 25-hour trip with strangers to the middle of the Gobi desert.

In 2013, Naadam’s CEO and co-founder Matt Scanlan, then 24, left his job on Wall Street and decided to go traveling in Asia. The company’s other co-founder, Diederik Rijsemus, who was studying for a master’s degree in Beijing, agreed to tag along for different legs of Scanlan’s “big adventure,” he says. The pair made Mongolia their first stop.

After meeting a few locals in the country’s capital, Ulaanbaatar, the pair serendipitously ended up staying for a month with a family of nomadic herders, whose livelihood depended on animal husbandry. As Scanlan was learning to milk and herd goats, he realized that he and the locals had more things in common than they had differences, and it was something he “wanted to put on a platform and share with a bigger audience.”

The world’s cashmere industry sources around 60% to 65% from China and the surrounding region, Scanlan says. But as problems of overgrazing and climate change continue to worsen, the once lush grasslands that the herder community is dependent upon face degradation and drought.

Recognizing the daily hardship the community had to endure, Scanlan and Rijsemus decided to work with Gobi Revival Fund, a local nonprofit, to set up veterinary insurance, breeding, and anti-dissertation programs. But they were told a year later that the programs failed to directly improve the local families’ livelihood.

The source of the problem points to the high markups in the supply chain, which “kept herders at a disadvantage financially while allowing middlemen to benefit,” Scanlan found. If the herders sell cashmere at $20 a kilogram, the traders and brokers can make $50 through reselling to the manufacturers.

That’s why, with bags full of just over US$2 million worth of cash in Tögrög in 32 plastic shopping bags, Scanlan and Rijsemus went back in 2015 with a convoy of trucks and purchased 60 tons of cashmere, which they turned into sweaters under the name Naadam (meaning “games” in Mongolian). To this day, the New York-based company continues sourcing raw materials directly from the herders, doing good through the Fund, while managing its rapid growth online and offline.

Co-founder Matt Scanlan in Mongolia. Naadam

THE ITEMS

Although Naadam is largely known for its sweaters, it also offers accessories including beanies, scarves, and gloves, as well as blankets and throws. There are also baby blankets and a cashmere set (beanie and sock booties) for the little ones.

Naadam offers a “soft scale” for a reference of hand feel: soft, very soft, silky soft, heavenly soft, and softest ever.

“We felt we needed to communicate to people what kind of variation of the product they were getting,” Scanlan says, and “softness is the No. 1 characteristic that people immediately jumped toward.”

Naadam also recognized that some people might want sweaters to be a little more durable, which technically requires cashmere to be blended with wool and feels a little less soft. For example, a “soft” sweater is made of 100% felted wool, while a “softest ever” one consists of 100% brushed cashmere.

PRICE

Sweaters, cardigans, and sweatsuits start at US$75 and top out at US$440 for a cardigan robe; accessories including socks, gloves, and scarves range between US$75 and US$200. Adult blankets cost US$325 and baby blankets are US$150.

“What we’re selling is a quality product at a much lower price because we’ve removed layers of traditional function,” Scanlan says.

Born as a direct-to-consumer brand, Naadam currently has three stores in New York City.

Naadam offers a "soft scale" for a reference of hand feel: soft, very soft, silky soft, heavenly soft, and softest ever. Naadam

WHAT’S THE GOOD

“We are a for-profit business with the instincts to have a social impact, those two things are becoming more and more blurred,” Scanlan says, adding that the shift in the business world is “generational.”

Through the Gobi Revival Fund, the company has invested in veterinary care for more than 1 million animals and provides sustainable breeding programs. It also fenced off 500 square miles of Gobi Desert as a protected food source for 100,000 goats and fresh pasture for over 1,000 herders every year, according to the company’s website.

Overall, Naadam has been putting around a hundred to two hundred thousand dollars in the local community every year since its inception, and the impact is “incalculable,” Scanlan says.

“You go to the regions where we work, and there are playgrounds, parks, fresh water, and hospitals. We really rely on the local community to do the work. That’s been the guiding principle behind the business,” he says.

WHAT’S NEXT

Back to Gobi, where it all started, Scanlan says there will be another 10,000 trees planted in the herders’ village over the next two years.

Businesswise, Naadam plans to expand on retail in addition to the three physical stores. The company has five new stores planned in 2020: two more in New York City and at least three more around the U.S.

“We will continue to be focused on our mission, continuing to share our story with people and make good products,” Scanlan says.