© iDealwine

There's a certain familiarity to the wines you were searching for in December.

Which wines were the most popular on Wine-Searcher over the holidays? You might be surprised.

Wow, some people got some nice presents this Christmas, didn't they?

Sorry to bring up the C-word again, but there's no way to avoid it, really, given this is a story about which wines you were all searching for over the holiday period. And those wines were pretty much as you'd expect – a who's who of the world's most collectible wines – but it wasn't all about the grape this year.

If anything, wine searches this Christmas were massively overshadowed by whiskey searches, with Blanton's making the biggest impression. While the top spirit search was Johnnie Walker Black Label (driven almost entirely by traffic from India), Blanton's racked up more than twice as many searches as last year and was easily the winner when it came to click-throughs – when a searcher clicks through to a merchant site with the intention of buying the product in question.

The click-through count is the real test for a wine or spirit. While simple search numbers indicate an aspiration, or at least a passing interest, click-throughs measure a genuine intent to buy, and Blanton's had four times as many click-throughs as its closest rival, which was, incidentally, a Blanton's stablemate, the WL Weller 12 Year Old Wheated Bourbon.

We'll take a closer look at spirits later this week but, for now, let's get back to the wines. The 10 most searched-for wines are listed below.

That line-up doesn't contain too many surprises. in fact, it's almost identical to the same list of wines for December 2018, with the DRC and Cristal coming in for Château Haut-Brion and Yquem. The top four are identical and the only big change otherwise is Sassicaia dropping from fifth to eighth place.

Looking at the click-throughs tells a slightly different tale, however – very slightly different. The order above is changed by Sassicaia steaming up to fourth spot (although click-throughs are down sharply on 2018, with numbers falling by 33.6 percent), Cristal moving up to fifth, and Yquem sneaking back into 10th spot. And you'd be surprised how many people clicked through to buy a bottle of DRC – thousands, which is weird given the wine's famously restricted availability.

Looking at the last four days before Christmas, when panic buying gets into full swing, shows that Wine-Searcher users weren't really changing target. Despite the looming deadline, users kept their eyes on the same prizes and click-throughs followed suit. A lot of trees would have had a bottle of Dom underneath them this year.

Looking for outliers is always fun, and this year is no different. The most heroically improved wine in December was a genuine dark horse. Herdade das Mouras de Arraiolos Capitao Rayeo, a low-cost regional red from Portugal's Alentejo region, went from a search ranking in the 183,000 vicinity to 34th place in our rankings.

That's a remarkable achievement for a wine that has an average price of just $4 and is currently only has one retail listing, the winery itself. It's not a glitch, either. The searches all came from China, so there's clearly a wine blogger over there with more pulling power than a team of draught horses. Who says the age of the influencer is over?