Tom Seaman, editorial director of Undercurrent News, brings you a roundup of the main stories from the previous week.

The spread of the coronavirus in China and abroad continues to have a big impact on seafood, which we're documenting in our live blog.

With the Chinese New Year holiday period over and coronavirus still spreading in the country, the global farmed shrimp industry is still uncertain of what is to come in the following months, María Feijóo reported.

However, it seems shrimp prices may be about to drop substantially, various industry sources told Maria last week.

Click here for the blog and here for Maria's story.

Coronavirus punishes US lobster harvesters

Even though they are largely shut out of China by the high tariffs associated with president Donald Trump's trade war, US lobster harvesters are also feeling the pain of the coronavirus, sources told Jason Huffman.

That's because the Canadian lobster exporters, blocked from sending their crustaceans to China, are now sending them to the US at discounted prices, putting pressure on the price of lobster being paid at US docks and at wholesale.

Paul DiMare, a lobster buyer for Boston Sword & Tuna, in Boston, Massachusetts, confirmed the trend for Jason on Jan. 31. He said one pound (“chix”) and pound-and-a-quarter hardshell lobsters (“quarters”) can be had from Canadian dealers for as low as $7.25 to $7.75, roughly a dollar less than the $8.25 to $8.50 he was seeing a week earlier.

Undercurrent News reported last week how Canadian lobster harvesters, which were previously getting as much as CAD 10.00/lb to CAD 10.75/lb ($7.55 to $8.12) at the docks, were being pressured to drop their prices. They are now being paid as low as CAD 8.00 ($6.04), sources told Jason on Feb. 3.

Click here for the full story.

Delays to start of China processing could impact H&G whitefish prices

Another way the coronavirus is likely to impact the seafood sector is the availability of labor. The whitefish sector is closely watching how long the coronavirus-linked delay to a full return to processing in China is, as this may have an impact on prices for headed and gutted cod, haddock and pollock, sources told me.

Production is set to re-start on Feb. 10 for most companies in Chinese processing hubs such as Qingdao and Dalian.

“We need to wait and see the impact,” Frank Bodin, a Norway-born whitefish sector veteran with Nordic Group USA who sources from China, told me.

“If all public or 'group' transportation is contained or recommended not to be used, the workers will have to get to the factories on their own. That could mean delays,” said Bodin.

Click here for the full story.

Recap Indian seafood show, Americas tuna conference

Dan Gibson has been reporting live from the 22nd India International Seafood Show (IISS), taking place in Kochi, India from Feb. 7-9, where the impact of coronavirus on the country's massive shrimp sector was also a hot topic. Dan posted a summary of this Monday.

As well as covering the impact of coronavirus on the sector, Dan sat down with some of the country's top processors at IISS to discuss their outlook and plans.

Matilde Mereghetti was also blogging live last week, from the Americas Tuna Conference, which took place in Panama City, Panama, from Feb. 6-7.

During the conference, the director of Ecuador's Tuna Conservation Group, known as Tunacons, Gullermo Moran, discussed how the Ecuadorian government is creating a new regulatory framework to address EU concerns that triggered a "yellow card" warning against the country.

Adolfo Valsecchi -- CEO of Italian canner Generale Conserve -- spoke about the importance of the Americas in supplying the EU market. However, he said canners in the Americas should look to Europe for inspiration.

Click here for the blog from the Indian show and here for the tuna conference coverage.

‘One winner’ in £40m Sainsbury’s whitefish tender

We also revealed last week that the tender for around £40 million in J. Sainsbury whitefish business has resulted in "one winner" -- the retailer.

Young's Seafood and New England Seafood International (NESI) have been fiercely battling it out over the tender, which the retailer had framed as "winner takes all", sources said.

However, Young's has retained the cod and haddock for Sainsbury’s, which is worth around £25m-£30m, with NESI keeping the seabass and seabream, worth around £10m.

"Well, there has been one winner, Sainsbury's," one executive, who asked not to be named, told me.

Click here for the full story.

Months late, Canada releases ‘State of Salmon Aquaculture Technologies’ report

Some 12 months after it was first promised and at least six months later than anticipated, Canada’s Department of Fisheries and Oceans (DFO) on Feb. 4 unveiled its "State of Salmon Aquaculture Technologies," a 64-page report evaluating four approaches for farming Atlantic salmon.

The verdict: Recirculating aquaculture systems (RAS) and the hybrid "super-smolt" approach to production are more ready to go for the province of British Columbia, Jason Huffman reported.

“Land RAS and hybrid production technologies are ready for commercial development in BC, while floating containment and offshore production systems need up to five years and 10 years respectively to evaluate their potential,” the authors say in their concluding "key findings and next steps" section of the paper.

The positive reference to hybrid technology is good news for the salmon net pen industry, which has been increasingly moving to the system by which the farmers keep their fish in hatcheries and out of the ocean as much as eight months longer, reducing their exposure to sea lice and other problems.

Click here for the full story.

Maruha Nichiro taps seafood M&A specialist to sell Alaska processor Peter Pan

It's rare a week passes without a scoop on mergers and acquisitions (M&A) on Undercurrent and last week we had three. Firstly, we revealed Japan’s Maruha Nichiro has tasked a specialist in seafood M&A to sell Peter Pan Seafoods, an Alaska processor of wild salmon, cod and pollock.

Tokyo-based Maruha Nichiro, the largest seafood company in the world in revenue, has engaged Antarctica Advisers, one of the most prolific seafood M&A advisory firms, to run the sale process for Peter Pan, sources told me.

The Maruha Nichiro plan to sell Peter Pan comes after a tough year for the Alaskan salmon sector.

Fishermen-owned Silver Bay Seafoods is emerging as a powerful new player and has put all the incumbent operators, including Peter Pan, Trident Seafoods, Ocean Beauty Seafoods, Cooke-owned Icicle Seafoods and North Pacific Seafoods, under pressure, sources said. Silver Bay has created much more competition for fish, sources said.

Click here for the full story.

Rich Products buys Morey’s Seafood

We also broke two more deals, as Rich Products announced the acquisition of Morey’s Seafood International from private equity Acuity Capital Partners and Fortune Fish International took investment to do more M&A.

The Rich's deal brings the Morey's brand, strong in fish, under the same umbrella as SeaPak, one of the biggest shrimp retail names in the US. Buffalo, New York-based Rich's, which employs 11,000 employees worldwide, also has manufacturing facilities in Brazil, Canada, India, China, Korea, Vietnam, Thailand, Mexico, South Africa, Australia and the UK, selling in 112 countries.

“We’ve invested in Morey’s because we see an exciting opportunity to grow our seafood business and take it to even greater heights,” said Jim Motos, senior vice president for Rich's consumer brands division. “Rich’s is a proud leader in seafood. Adding Morey’s know-how, product portfolio and passion for high-quality, authentic fish and seafood products to our already strong seafood business puts us in a great position to deliver more for our customers and meet the changing demands of their consumers.”

Click here for the full story.

Private equity buys into Fortune Fish parent, bringing with it $105m to finance more acquisitions

Last week, Jason Smith also revealed a US-based private equity firm has invested in the parent of major distributor Fortune Fish & Gourmet.

The investor in the Bensenville, Illinois-based seafood importer and distributor is Investcorp, a New York City-based private equity affiliated with Investcorp Holdings, a publicly-traded Bahraini investment firm with some $34bn in assets under management.

The size of Investcorp's stake in Fortune was not disclosed and the company declined to comment on this story. The private equity investment brought with it a $105m senior secured credit facility, which Fortune can draw against to buy other seafood companies in the future, its president and CEO, Sean O'Scannlain, told Jason.

“It was really about getting us the capital to continue our acquisition strategy. That’s the nice thing about this transaction and what it will give us in terms of just the resources and financial expertise,” he said. O'Scannlain also told me the company hopes to have three deals done in the first half.

Click here for the full story on the Investcorp deal and here for the followup with O'Scannlain.