The woman was about to give birth, her baby’s head crowning through the vaginal opening.

But the doctor sensed something was dangerously wrong: the baby’s shoulder was being blocked by the woman’s pelvic bone, a condition known as shoulder dystocia that in rare cases can cause a stillbirth.

In an instant, Dr. Xingbang Zheng spread the woman’s legs far apart and high into the air as he pressed down on her belly. Those manoeuvres made the woman’s pelvic bone rotate, allowing the baby’s shoulder to slip through without mishap. A couple of seconds later, Zheng was holding the infant in his arms — or rather, a mannequin designed to look like a baby.

“It’s much easier than in real life,” Zheng remarked after the medical simulation was over.

“We speeded things up on purpose for the demonstration,” said Renata De Melo, of CAE Healthcare, who was supervising the simulation. “We could have made it much more difficult.”

CAE is known the world over for its flight simulators. But the St-Laurent-based company also produces medical simulators, and on Wednesday it showcased a wide range of augmented-reality devices at the McGill University Health Centre.

The open house at the MUHC Research Institute drew dozens of health professionals, including Zheng, an obstetrician-gynecologist visiting from China.

“It’s a very good tool,” Zheng said of the childbirth simulator. “It feels lifelike.”

Yes, that’s a birthing simulator! The #MUHC and #CAE are holding an open house Wednesday at the Research Institute to show off some of the latest in medical simulators to improve training. pic.twitter.com/hXK1CCv7Er — Aaron Derfel (@Aaron_Derfel) February 5, 2020

On Wednesday CAE announced a $500,000 donation in medical simulators and other equipment to the MUHC for its planned inter-professional skills and simulation network. The MUHC will set up simulation centres at the Montreal General Hospital and the Glen site superhospital in Notre-Dame-de-Grâce.

The MUHC Foundation aims to raise $10 million to establish the network in one to two years.

“This network is going to create more of a patient-safety culture at our hospitals,” Dr. Elene Khalil, director of education at the MUHC, said of the project.

“Ultimately, the patient will benefit.”

The Canadian Patient Safety Institute estimates that medical errors account for 28,000 deaths each year in Canada. Although all physicians undergo residency training and evaluation in hospitals, they need to keep up with their skills. That’s why medical simulation is so essential.

McGill University runs the Steinberg Centre for medical simulation on Parc Ave. But that centre is mostly for student training. Khalil suggested that setting up simulation centres at the two hospitals will help expose “latent errors” that might not be obvious in a non-clinical setting.

Marc Parent, CAE’s chief executive officer and a member of the MUHC Foundation’s board, said his company is applying the principles of civil aviation safety to health care. The goal, he explained, is to train surgeons and other health professionals to develop the necessary “muscle memory” to respond instantly to an unforeseen medical emergency, on the same level as a pilot reacts automatically to an engine failure.

Dr. Richard Cruess, the former dean of medicine at McGill, is still involved in medical education at the age of 90, and marvelled at the latest advances in simulation. Cruess recalled that as a student in the early 1950s, he and his classmates had to sacrifice about 200 rabbits to learn how to suture.

“We would inflict wounds of different types on the rabbits as groups of students,” Cruess recounted. “One student would be the anesthetist and another student would be the surgeon. In retrospect, it was awful. It was a different world then. Patient rights had not really been well established, much less animal rights.”

Today, in contrast, “you don’t even think in those terms anymore. The revolution in technology, which of course includes simulation, is like magic.”

aderfel@postmedia.com | twitter.com/Aaron_Derfel