Despite low turnout and concerns about illness, attendees at the Lunar New Year Festival in Quincy were in high spirits.

QUINCY — Attendance was dramatically lower than usual at the Quincy Lunar New Year Festival, a 32-year-old celebration that is one of the biggest cultural events in the city. Leaders at Quincy Asian Resources Inc., who organized the event Sunday at North Quincy High School, cited concerns about the recent spread of the coronavirus to Massachusetts.

Philip Chong, Quincy Asian Resources chief executive, said attendance was about 4,000 people, less than half of the usual 10,000. He said there had been talk of cancelling the festival, despite months of planning and promoting, and that some vendors had pulled out of the festival because of concerns about their staff becoming ill. He said Quincy Asian Resources supported their decision.

"We want people to feel safe to come here, and if they don't feel comfortable, they don't have to come in," Chong said.

Want news like this sent straight to your inbox? Head over to PatriotLedger.com to sign up for alerts and make sure you never miss a thing. You pick the news you want, we deliver.

On Saturday, health officials announced the first confirmed case of coronavirus in Massachusetts: a UMass-Boston student who had just flown in from Wuhan, China.

Chong said Quincy Asian Resources worked with the city's health commissioner and the state Department of Public Health to estimate coronavirus risk before the festival, which they determined was low. In fact, he said, officials were more concerned about the risk of attendees catching the flu.

Quincy Mayor Thomas Koch, one of many city and state officials at the festival, said part of the attendance drop may be due to other Lunar New Year festivals held at the same time in Boston, and to Sunday night's Super Bowl.

"More people will die of the regular flu this year than that virus, I think," Koch said of the coronavirus. "Does it make sense to take precautions? We always, always should, no matter what the issue. But I hope people don't overreact to it."

Like many attendees and vendors at the festival, 18-year-old volunteer Jacky Lam wore a mask over his mouth.

"My dad just told me to be safe because of the whole coronavirus thing," Lam said. "It's also flu season and there's a lot of people in one place, so better safe than sorry."

Mark Liu, of the Chinese Progressive Association, said he wasn't concerned about the coronavirus.

"I've been reading the news and it sounds like it's still a very low chance that anything's going to happen," he said. "We're concerned about also some of the racism that's cropped up with it."

But despite the lower-than-normal turnout and health concerns, attendees at the festival were happy to celebrate.

The high school was decorated with red and gold streamers, and children played games, enjoyed arts and crafts and excitedly waited in line to receive their customary red pocket of goodies from the "lucky man." People of all ages ate traditional East Asian foods, watched song and dance performances and visited with the approximately 40 vendors and community organizations at tables around the gymnasium.

2020 is the Chinese zodiac's year of the rat, so the animal was featured all over the festival, from origami sculptures to red stuffed animals that were given to children. The popular lion dance performance, by Wah Lum Kung Fu and Tai Chi Academy, featured the lion saving a rat from a snake before tossing fruit and mouthfuls of lettuce into the audience.

Chong said the year of the rat is the first year in the Chinese zodiac cycle.

"The year of the rat in terms of tradition represents hard work and intelligence," he said. "A person born in the year is someone that you should not underestimate because they are the first ones."

Many attendees said the Lunar New Year was a time to celebrate with family, often with a big meal.

"It's primarily about spending time with family," Liu said. "I think, being in America, it's also about connecting to Chinese roots, the cultures and traditions."

Others said it makes them feel optimistic about a new year bringing health, prosperity and happiness.

"If you've had a bad year, then 'Come on, New Year's!" said Quincy Asian Resources board member David Chew, laughing. "You can't wait for New Year's to start and bring on a new beginning."

Quincy Asian Resources leaders said the festival is a time of unity, togetherness and cultural exchange for the people of Quincy, especially the Asian community, who make up nearly a third, or about 27,000, of Quincy's population of 94,000, according to census data.

"We bring families together," Chew said. "You know how the culture is now where families are separating because they're so busy doing one thing after another. But everybody comes together for Chinese New Year and that's very important for the Asian community."

"Quincy has always been a welcoming community," Koch said. "Diversity is our strength. We have far more in common than that which divides us. Let's keep that in mind as Americans."







