© Erin Bormett / Argus Leader Governor Kristi Noem gives the annual State of the State address on Tuesday, Jan. 14, in the House Chamber at the State Capitol in Pierre.

PIERRE — Gov. Kristi Noem wants to roll out the red carpet for businesses in South Dakota in 2020.

Noem lauded South Dakota's ability to balance its budget without "accounting gimmicks or tricks" during her 46-minute State of the State address to the Legislature on Tuesday. The state accomplished "a lot" in 2019 without raising taxes or spending more than it took in, she said.

"Whether you've owned and operated a business for four generations, or you're looking to start or even relocate your current operation, I want my message to be crystal clear: South Dakota is open for business," Noem said.

In a press conference afterward, Noem said the state plans to be "aggressive" this year in recruiting businesses to South Dakota and encouraging new opportunities for the state's existing businesses to grow.

More: Read Gov. Kristi Noem's full State of the State address

She said she'll continue to focus on the impact the state's actions will have on the next generation of South Dakotans, a motto she has worked under since her inauguration a year ago.

Here are a few key takeaways from Noem's address and the first day of the 2020 legislative session.

Education funding increase

Noem didn't include a funding increase for education, state employees and community support providers in her proposed 2021 budget, but she noted in her State of the State address that revenues have been "slightly better than expected," and her top priority is to provide those increases with any additional, ongoing money that the state receives.

More: Noem asks state agencies to tighten their belts in 2021 budget

When asked afterward if she believes state law mandates an inflationary increase for education, she responded that the statute addresses it, and her budget is a "recommendation" for the Legislature.

"That's the process, and it's worked in South Dakota for literally decades and decades," she said.

Legislators' reactions

House Majority Leader Lee Qualm, R-Platte, said the State of the State was a "really good speech" that hit on a lot of different topics that are important to South Dakota's communities, including expanding high-speed internet and increasing housing options. He supported Noem's comment that she won't raise taxes and will instead bring in businesses to expand the economy.

"That is true growth. That's how we make everything great: keep taxes low, business high, and it's a win-win for everybody," Qualm said.

Senate Minority Leader Troy Heinert, D-Mission, said the speech was "high level" and lacked detail. He wished Noem had gone into more detail about funding increases for education, state employees and community support providers. He didn't disagree with her comments, Heinert said, but officials have been saying "South Dakota is open for business" for years while not changing anything they do.

"I wanted to see some actual policy discussions where we know where she stands on issues. I just didn't hear it in her speech," Heinert said.

© Erin Bormett / Argus Leader Legislators listen to Governor Kristi Noem give the annual State of the State address on Tuesday, Jan. 14, in the House Chamber at the State Capitol in Pierre.

Legalize industrial hemp

She also reiterated that although she doesn't think legalizing industrial hemp is "a good idea," she knows that many legislators believe industrial hemp has a "promising economic future." She and legislators had "a long conversation" about legalizing industrial hemp during the past year, she said.

She said she's willing to sign an industrial hemp bill into law if it includes enforcement guidelines, responsible regulation, a licensing system that includes legal consequences for transporting industrial hemp without a license, and adequate state funds to cover the costs of implementing a hemp program.

More: Gov. Kristi Noem drops her opposition to legalizing hemp, seeks compromise with lawmakers

Noem called for the industrial hemp bill to be through the legislative process in the coming weeks. Qualm said on Tuesday that legislators could be done with the hemp bill in the first two weeks of session.

Agriculture's 2020 outlook

Noem announced that she, along with a South Dakota soybean producer and pork producer, will be joining President Donald Trump at the White House on Wednesday when he signs a trade agreement with China. She told the media afterward that she'll be attending the signing at Trump's request.

Agriculture is the "foundation" of South Dakota's economy, and last year was a difficult year for the state's farmers.

"But when times get tough, our people stand together," she said. "South Dakotan farmers pressed on."

The state's focus expanded last year to include precision agriculture, production agriculture and value-added agriculture, and Noem said the goal is "to develop a lasting infrastructure devoted to agriculture for generations to come."

© Erin Bormett / Argus Leader Attendees in the gallery listen as Governor Kristi Noem gives the annual State of the State address on Tuesday, Jan. 14, in the House Chamber at the State Capitol in Pierre.

Expanding broadband

Noem wants to continue to expand broadband internet access across South Dakota.

The state offered $5 million in matching grants last year, and that has resulted in a $25 million investment in broadband projects in the state, she said. She is again requesting the Legislature include $5 million for broadband grants in the 2021 budget.

"We want to create an environment where people aren't forced to choose between the modern economy on the one hand, and life in their hometowns on the other," she said.

Meth treatment

Her anti-meth campaign, "Meth. We're On It," last year was "bold" and "provocative," she said.

"Whether you liked the ads or not, I can tell you this: I have heard story after story of people now talking about the problem. And wanting to do more to address it," she said.

More: 'Meth. We're On It.': What to know about South Dakota's new anti-meth campaign

Now that the campaign has caught people's attention, the state has "a rare opportunity" to begin discussing meth treatment programs, and she said she's asking for more funding to support intensive treatment programs for meth addicts in South Dakota.

© Erin Bormett / Argus Leader Governor Kristi Noem gives the annual State of the State address on Tuesday, Jan. 14, in the House Chamber at the State Capitol in Pierre.

Improving the business climate

Noem said the state will take several steps in the coming weeks toward the goal of "smart regulation," which includes simplifying the occupational licensing system.

The state's licensing system is in good shape, but some actions need to be taken to reduce the burden on small business owners, she said. She proposed the state decrease the wait time for approving an occupational license, ensure state advisory committees adhere to South Dakota's open meeting laws, review the complaint and disciplinary process for all boards and commissions, and identify opportunities to allow for license reciprocity.

Noem noted that she also wants to expand outreach efforts to Native American communities to let tribes know about employment opportunities in South Dakota.

"It is my hope that we can find ways to work with our Native American community so they can participate more fully in the life and business of the state," she said.

This article originally appeared on Sioux Falls Argus Leader: Noem all in on business in speech to lawmakers. More takeaways from hemp to teacher pay.