Sign up to FREE email alerts from LeicestershireLive - Daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

I didn’t really know what to expect when we got to The Bear Grylls Adventure.

I assumed it might be a temporary set-up, with a handful of activities spread around one of the big barns at the NEC - a bit like a fairground, but protected from the February rain.

It was loads better than that.

The huge fiberglass back end of a Chinook helicopter perched above the entrance with a zip line coming out of it makes for quite an impression.

As does the huge, high ropes climbing frame (around £32, and children as young as eight can have a go) that the zip wire plunges down to.

Apparently it’s the highest of its kind in Europe and you get to explore it at your own pace - assuming the thought of going on it at all doesn’t terrify you.

Unfortunately Storm Ciara, or was it Storm Dennis, had put paid to any thoughts of doing that. Probably for the best.

Inside and out of the elements it’s all rather grand.

There are big artificial trees with artificial planes crashed in them, camouflage netting and fake greenery everywhere. There’s even an old Army truck you can have your lunch in.

There’s also a huge fish tank, teaming with rays and sharks and hundreds of tropical fish which is also one of the attractions.

For around £120, anyone aged 10 and over can scuba dive with the sharks - and earn a PADI beginners certificate to boot.

The divers we saw doing it - it’s hard to say if they were watching us or we were watching them - looked like they were having a whale of a time.

Alternatively you can also do an hour long snorkel session there for around £36.

Now, while we’re at it, don’t take these prices as gospel because they can vary depending on what time of day or what day of the week you visit.

Likewise, walk-up prices are more than if you book in advance, but there did appear to be discounts if you tag on additional activities once you’re there.

It’s all run by Merlin, the people who do Madame Tussauds and Legoland, and basically there are 10 zones, inspired by Bear Grylls himself.

They include everything from archery, and climbing to escape rooms, a fear zone, indoor skydiving and shooting.

There’s also a Royal Marines-inspired assault course which is free to do and great fun - well it was for the first 30 seconds or so until I realised I wasn’t a teenager any more and my heart almost burst out of my chest.

While I recovered, the kids loved it though and couldn’t get enough.

Most of the attractions can be tackled by eight year olds, but there are some you need to be 10 for. And it wasn’t all children. There were lots of adults and couples enjoying themselves.

We started with the escape room (which costs from around £24 per person) where we had to work out where we had been abandoned.

There’s something gratifying at looking at a series of clues and props that mean absolutely nothing to you to begin with, then gradually working out what you have to do and eventually, all-being-well, getting the right answers.

It was tense, daft and lots of fun.

And we would have completed it if we’d had another minute and I hadn’t got confused right at the end.

After a bite to eat we then had a go at the archery (from around £12.50) which we also really enjoyed.

The advice was clear and the equipment really good - proper bows and arrows and big straw targets. Hitting the odd bullseye was very satisfying.

It was great value (ours was a freebie so didn’t cost anything) but my only complaint about the whole day would have been for this part to last a bit longer. Maybe that was just me though.

We also had a go in the Fear Zone (from around £6.25) designed to test your ability to deal with scary things like dark, claustrophobic spaces and horrible creepy-crawlies.

I thought it was great fun, as did my daughter when she had stopped crying and taken her nails out of my arm.

To find out about the Bear Grylls Adventure click here.

We didn’t do the iFly indoor skydiving thing (from £48.70) - where big fans let you float on a jet of noisy air inside a big tube.

But joining the gawping onlookers standing around it and judging by the big smiles on the faces of the people doing it, it looked brilliant.

All in-all-we would happily have paid to do some of the other things and there’s a good chance we’ll go back - my daughter is desperate to do the high ropes.

But maybe I’ll give the assault course a miss next time.