Donald Trump claims a win with the US-China trade deal, but questions remain

Updated

After a two-year trade war that's sent shudders through global markets and dragged down growth the world over, the US and China have finally signed a deal.

It's taken 13 rounds of talks to forge this interim agreement, which leaves the bulk of the most damaging tariffs and trade practices in place.

The full text of the deal has not yet been released, but government-released fact sheets indicate that the deal is a significant, if small, step forward.

It includes Chinese commitments to remove barriers for US agricultural imports and crack down on companies that steal intellectual property.

In return, the US will halve the tariff rate it imposed on $120 billion worth of Chinese goods to 7.5 per cent.

In a rambling speech that lasted almost an hour, US President Donald Trump claimed a major victory, labelling the agreement a "momentous step" towards achieving "free, fair and reciprocal" trade with China.

There's no doubt the White House ceremony marks a political triumph for the President as he prepares for a re-election fight.

But the latest move is more of a ceasefire than a war-ending peace treaty, leaving questions as to how it'll resonate with Mr Trump's agriculture and manufacturing base, let alone the global economy.

Australia likely to be affected by the deal

The deal averts another round of tariffs the United States was going to impose on Chinese imports in December.

In exchange, Beijing has agreed to buy $US200 billion ($289 billion) of American products over two years, including:

$US50 billion in agricultural products

$US75 billion in manufacturing products

$US50 billion in energy supplies

If China delivers on its promise to buy goods in this quantity from America, it will most likely lead to what trade experts call "consumption diversion".

Put simply, China will buy more of its goods from America, potentially reducing what it buys from Australia.

Australia's dairy and meat industries could be impacted; as could liquid natural gas and coal, but to a lesser extent.

Rabobank's head of food and agribusiness research in Australia Tim Hunt says the nation has rapidly become heavily reliant on China for agricultural exports.

"The share of our ag export sent to China reached almost 30 per cent in 2018/19," he told ABC News.

"Not since 1959 have we been so reliant on one export market.

"In volume terms, China is now the number one export market for a wide range of Australian food and ag products: wool, cotton, wine, barley, beef, sheepmeat, dairy, almonds, citrus, table grapes and rock lobsters."

In comparison, US agricultural exports to China have been relatively low and falling. Rabobank expects that to change dramatically under the phase one trade deal.

The fate of intellectual property is also uncertain

One of Mr Trump's chief accomplishments in the deal is China's promise to provide protection for the intellectual property of American companies and stop requiring US firms to share their technology as a cost of doing business in China.

The commitments are not all that different from what's previously been promised, according to William Alan Reinsch, a senior adviser for the Centre for Strategic and International Studies.

"They've made similar promises in the past they have not kept," he told ABC, adding that the US has "learned to be sceptical" over such intellectual property promises.

The deal stipulates that failing to meet the terms would trigger "consultations" between the two countries.

Barbara Weisel, the former assistant US trade representative for South-East Asia, doesn't expect the deal to result in meaningful structural change.

"Even as there is a ceasefire in the trade war, the tech war will continue," she said.

"The tech war will not change US Government priorities regarding competition with China, technology or the regulation that the US Government and Congress are seeking to impose on China related to export controls and foreign investment reviews."

Trump's approach may well pay off politically

The President will enter a re-election campaign with a commitment from China to buy billions in American goods, review its intellectual property protections and generally pursue economic changes that will benefit American businesses.

White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said the agreement would boost the US gross domestic product by 0.5 percentage points for the next two years.

If China delivers on its promise, the long-sought-after deal will provide some relief for Americans who've suffered since the tit-for-tat exchange started.

While Mr Trump has argued China has been punished by the tariffs, there is evidence to suggest that US producers — from farmers to manufacturers — have borne the brunt.

Family farms have gone out of business and the manufacturing sector is effectively in recession.

Workers from these industries are the very people who voted for Mr Trump in 2016 and who he hopes to retain in November.

The Trump administration has also agreed not to impose tariffs on $US120 billion ($231 billion) of Chinese imports, including popular consumer items such as mobile phones and laptops.

But generally speaking, most of the previous tariffs will remain in place, allowing Mr Trump to claim he's tough on China in his stump speech.

The deal has plenty of critics

Among the remaining tariffs are steep 25 per cent sanctions on much of what the US buys from China — $US250 billion in total — including components that American factories use to assemble finished products.

The deal also fails to address some of the most important economic issues Mr Trump set out to achieve, including ending China's practice of inundating international markets with low-priced goods and investing billions in state-owned companies.

Democratic Senate Minority Chuck Schumer called it a "historic blunder".

Former vice-president and Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden called it "vague" and "weak".

Mr Trump has said negotiations on phase two of the deal will kick off soon, even saying he'll travel to China for part of the talks.

But he appears to have tempered his previous wishes for a speedy resolution. His allies say the next phase may not conclude until after the election.

The limbo period frustrates some American businesses who've had to plan in the face of uncertainty.

US business optimism hit a five-month low this summer. According to some surveys, the tariffs on Chinese goods have increased the cost of doing business for 37 per cent of American small businesses. Reports suggest that corporate investors have held off on spending money because of the trade uncertainty.

There are still questions on whether China will adhere to the new agreement. One of the country's viable options involves stalling until this year's presidential race is decided.

And there's still plenty who argue that the phase one deal is designed to control the damage Mr Trump inflicted in the first place.

Mr Trump's tactics have been unusual at best and haphazard at most.

Only time will tell how they pay off for his campaign, the US economy and the rest of the world.

Topics: donald-trump, person, jinping-xi, trade, world-politics, government-and-politics, united-states, china

First posted