BY GORETHY KENNETH

Prime Minister James Marape began his New Zealand tour yesterday with official announcement that he will be travelling on Falcon jet but chartered from Air Niugini.

Mr Marape said that Attorney-General Davis Steven would be acting Prime Minister during his absence. He also told reporters that he would be taking the Falcon jet which had been chartered from Air Niugini. He will pass through Fiji for the Pacific Islands’ leaders meeting and where he would meet with Israeli President Reuven Rivlin.

Mr Marape said his Government wanted to build warm relationship with our closest neighbours in trade and commerce and not only on political level. Australia and New Zealand are world-class economies; Indonesia has 260 million consumers for food and energy, likewise the Republic of Philippines that has 110 million people and both are solid economies that PNG can trade with.

“I will later in the year be guest to Rwanda, China and USA to strengthen bilateral relations with these nations. I will also be attending the United Nations meeting and APEC 2020 this year,” he said.

“Today I announce my departure for a formal state visit to New Zealand, travelling through Fiji for a meeting with Pacific Island leaders and the President of Israel.

“The meeting with Israel President Reuven Rivlin will take place on February 20 and on February 21 I will be received by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand for my four-day work visit.

“My visit to New Zealand is in order and to firstly thank them personally for being a genuine friend of PNG. Recently, the New Zealand Government assisted by evacuating our PNG students from China to New Zealand due to the coronavirus,” he said.

“In this visit, we hope to elevate and consolidate our bilateral relationship with New Zealand. New Zealand is a first world country in our Pacific neighbourhood who has built its economy purely based of agriculture, fisheries and tourism.

“Next Thursday, I will take a delegation across to Solomon Islands on a State visit. The country of Solomon Islands is our immediate brother nation and our continual friendship with them on person to person, business to business and government to government relationships is important.

“Sometimes this year, I will visit Indonesia and Philippines that should conclude the five nations closest to home that I want PNG to have greater trade and economic relationships with.”