Piers Morgan attends the 2019 British Academy Britannia Awards presented by American Airlines and Jaguar Land Rover at The Beverly Hilton Hotel on October 25, 2019 in Beverly Hills, California. (Photo by Emma McIntyre/BAFTA LA/Getty Images for BAFTA LA)

Piers Morgan is sticking by his vow to boycott the National Television Awards on Tuesday but in his latest explanation as to why, he's attacked this year’s host David Walliams.

The Good Morning Britain presenter previously said he wasn't attending but has taken the opportunity to claim Walliams "makes [his] skin crawl" in a new interview detailing why he won’t be there.

“I’m not going this year,” the 54-year-old told The Mirror. “There’s no point when the same people win the same awards every year. I’d rather stay at home and watch Groundhog Day.

Read more: Piers Morgan's 'mocking' of Chinese language sparks almost 300 complaints

“And the host David Walliams makes my skin crawl.”

David Walliams attends the Britain's Got Talent Auditions Photocall at the London Palladium.- PHOTOGRAPH BY Keith Mayhew / Echoes Wire/ Barcroft Media (Photo credit should read Keith Mayhew / Echoes Wire / Barcroft Media via Getty Images) More

It comes as the Morgan disparaged Walliams as a "snivelling toady" on Twitter back in October for liking "nastiest tweets" about him.

He went on to say "it wasn't [his] fault" that Britain's Got Talent ratings were "higher" when he was a judge as he called Walliams out for liking tweets that criticised him.

The journalist previously sniped at This Morning's Holly Willoughby over the award nominations after claiming she and co-star Phillip Schofield "won every year".

Morgan fumed on GMB: “I’m not going this year. I’m sick of Holly and Phil winning every year. And Ant and Dec will win Best Presenter.

Good Morning Britain presenters Piers Morgan and Susanna Reid. (ITV/Nicky Johnson) More

“Holly always goes, ‘Oh! Me again?!’ Then she leans in and goes, ‘Take that you little....’

“Don’t be fooled by Holly Willoughby.”

Good Morning Britain is up for Best Live Magazine Show at the awards show, which will take place on Tuesday.

Meanwhile, Walliams is hosting the NTAs for the first time as he replaces Dermot O’Leary.

The X Factor host decided to step down from the role last year after presenting his 10th ceremony.