Megaworld Corp. chairman and chief executive officer Dr. Andrew L. Tan will be conferred the title of “Adopted Son of Bacolod” at the Bacolod City Government Center during the 15th BacoLaodiat Festival today, BacoLaodiat chairman Odette Ong-Gomez said yesterday. Gomez said Tan will also be bestowedthe title of “Honorary Mayor of Bacolod,” as part of the highlight of the Chinese New Year celebration. Tan said he is very honored to be given this title. He will deliver a speech to the Chinese community during the Spring Festival dinner which they expect to be attended by about 1,500 guests, she said. The opening of the 15th BacoLaodiat Festival yesterday started with a performance rendered by the Chuncheon Nong-Ak Preservation Association (Korean Percussionists), followed by an incense burning led by Mayor Evelio Leonardia, Councilor Cindy Rojas, BacoLaodiat chairman Odette Ong-Gomez and other members, and representatives of Chinese family associations, business and church organizations, as well as the opening of the Imperial Village and a motorcade from the BCGC to the plaza and a parade to the Capitol Lagoon Gomez said they also opened the Chopsticks Alley at the Lacson Tourism Strip after the parade. This was followed by a cultural show from the Chinese schools in Bacolod City. There are DJs from Manila who came to play for the street party along Lacson Street. Fireworks display will follow the activities, she said. BacoLaodiat has evolved from a very simple festival to a more complex one. This year, they have national and international guests for the first time, Gomez said. Their activities have also evolved and now include the millennial generation or the younger generation, that is why they have the mobile legend tournament and cosplaying, she said. In his opening remarks, Leonardia said the presence of Chinese culture will always be felt in Bacolod. So the BacoLaodiat Festival is a recognition and legitimation of the assimilation of this culture by the people of Bacolod. “I am happy to see that the BacoLaodiat spirit is still very vibrant especially in a time like this when we are facing this threat (of the coronavirus),” Leonardia said. He compared the situation to that of the MassKara Festival. But, like the spirit of the Bacolodnons, the BacoLaodiat Festival is resilient, he said, adding that they have the go-signal of the Department of Health to go on with the celebration. Meanwhile, Gomez said the rat is the first zodiac animal of the 12 cycle of animals. So in the Year of the Rat they expect Bacolod to chart for a new and better future. While everyone is concerned about the coronavirus, she believes it will not spread since the Philippines is hot, being a tropical country. Western Visayas is free of the coronavirus, she said. “Since the BacoLaodiat is here, let us just make the best out of it,” she added.* back to top