Kerr says his crystal ball gazing about a fiscal stimulus in China is based on intelligence gathered by South32's analysts, economists and engineers working in Singapore and China.

China has repeatedly turned to fiscal stimulus in response to shocks to its economy, most notably in the wake of the global financial crisis. These stimulus packages have tended to favour sectors of the economy reliant on steel production such as infrastructure and property.

Kerr says South32 is benefiting in the short term from China's extension of its Lunar New Year holiday period because no production at Chinese mines and restrictions on the movement of ore trucks have resulted in stronger demand for imported manganese and alumina.

This comes at a time when Chinese environmental restrictions and declines in the grade of locally mined supply have increased Chinese import dependency.

Surprisingly strong

Nevertheless there are bearish views of South32's prospects simply because spot prices for its products point to lower earnings. Analysts at Macquarie said in a note last week that spot price scenarios generated 24 per cent and 16 per cent lower earnings for fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2022.

Of course, the single most important commodity export from Australia to China is iron ore. Its price has proven surprisingly strong in the face of mounting doom and gloom about the coronavirus.

The spot iron ore price has fallen 11 per cent since the coronavirus outbreak to about $US80 a tonne. Based on current trends the average iron ore price in fiscal 2020 for Australia's big three miners – BHP Group, Rio Tinto and FMG – will be the strongest for several years.

Advertisement

BHP, which earns an underlying profit margin of 65 per cent on its iron ore operations, will report half-year results on Tuesday. Chief executive Mike Henry is expected to provide further insight into Chinese thinking about possible stimulus measures when he speaks to analysts and reporters on Tuesday.

Investment in BHP, Rio, Fortescue and South32 over the past few years has been all about enjoying extraordinary capital management programs including share buybacks and special dividends.

South32 recently expanded its capital management program (since listing in 2017) by $US180 million to $US1.43 billion. It declared a $US54 million special dividend last week and it has $US190 million remaining to spend on buybacks.

Separate to the resources sector, there is mounting evidence the coronavirus is having a severe impact on global trade. The Baltic Exchange Dry Index, a measure of container shipping traffic, is at its lowest level since March 2016.

Quantitative analysts at Nomura Securities say the Baltic Exchange Dry Index usually experiences seasonal weakness over the Christmas/New Year period before bouncing back in mid-February.

If the index does not bounce soon it could be taken as a bearish sign by markets which have, so far, proven impervious to the impact of the coronavirus.

Disclosure: The author's self managed super fund owns shares in South32.