The Rosamond Gifford Zoo loves New York, and last year the zoo proved it by adopting an “I Love New York” naming theme for its new arrivals.

The theme led the zoo to name over a dozen animals for places in New York State – including a male American bison named Madison, a male Sichuan takin named Windsor and a female Eastern Massasauga rattlesnake named Cicero.

The theme was such a great success that the zoo plans to continue it through 2020, said Zoo Director Ted Fox.

“Our animal care staff came up with the ‘I Love New York’ theme to honor our great state, and it’s gotten a lot of positive reaction,” Fox said. “We even got some media attention from places that we used as animal names.”

For example, the Albany Times-Union focused on a baby San Clemente Island goat named Troy and asked, “What other Capital Region locale could be next?”

“All 'kid'ding aside, the City of Troy is pleased to be recognized with our fellow Upstate communities and we thank the zookeepers and staff for the inclusion," Troy spokesman John Salka told the newspaper.

The idea for an annual naming theme for zoo residents started in 2018, when animal care staff decided to name animals that arrived during the zoo’s Dinosaur Invasion! exhibit after characters in “The Land Before Time” movies. That resulted in snow leopard cubs named Ozzy and Strut and red pandas named Loofah and Doofah, among others.

While the dinosaur theme pretty much exhausted all 13 “Land Before Time” movies, New York State offers hundreds of place names to choose from, Fox said. The zoo hopes to create even more engagement by asking people to suggest New York place names for new animals via social media.

Here’s the breakdown of all the “I Love New York” animals that arrived at the zoo in 2019.

Windsor , a male Sichuan takin, was born at the zoo on March 9 – the zoo’s first birth of this endangered species of hoofed mammal native to the mountains of China. Windsor is a town in Broome County.

Hamilton , a male San Clemente Island goat, was among eight baby goats born at the zoo, all members of this endangered breed of livestock. Hamilton was the runt and had to be hand reared. His siblings and cousins – Troy, Verona, Savannah, Ithaca, Elmira, Sidney and Aurora – have since moved to a family farm. Hamilton, named for the town in Madison County, is a popular outreach animal at the zoo.

Peru and Lima , two male Humboldt penguins that hatched at the zoo in early May, are the youngest members of the zoo’s 34-member colony of penguins. Their names reflect their native habitat on the coast of South America as well as the New York theme -- Peru is a town in Clinton County and Lima is a town in Livingston County.

Madison , a male American bison calf, was born on exhibit May 9 as hundreds of zoo visitors witnessed his birth. He was the second American bison born at the zoo. Madison is a town in Madison County.

Milo and Mina , male and female twin Amur leopard cubs, were born at the zoo on June 19. They represent the world’s most endangered big cats. After an online vote, they were named for the Yates County town of Milo and the Chautauqua County town of Mina.

· Alfred , a crested coua, is a colorful bird native to Madagascar who came to us from Disney’s Animal Kingdom. Alfred is a town in Allegany County.

Cicero , a female Eastern Massasauga rattlesnake, represents a locally endangered species that has been found in the Cicero swamp here in Onondaga County.

Holley , a South African Cape porcupine, arrived at the zoo in September at age 1. She is named after a town in Orleans County.

· Dexter and Derby , two Southern tamanduas, tree-dwelling anteaters native to South America, were welcomed to the zoo in November. Dexter is a village in Jefferson County and Derby is a hamlet in Erie County.

· Java and Tupper are male Netherland dwarf rabbits that recently joined our team of outreach animals. Java is a town in Wyoming County and Tupper Lake is a village in Franklin County.

The Rosamond Gifford Zoo is Syracuse’s accredited member of the Association of Zoos & Aquariums (AZA), the gold standard for animal care, wildlife conservation and guest experience. Find information on zoo events at www.syracusezooevents.org.