Canton voters can cast ballots during early voting for the March 3 Presidential Primaries from Monday, Feb. 24 through Friday, Feb. 28.

Canton Town Hall will be open for early voting from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday, Wednesday and Thursday; from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesday; and from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. Friday.

Massachusetts voters can cast their ballot at any designated location in their community, or by mail.

A list of early voting locations is available on Secretary of State Galvin's website at https://tinyurl.com/tc4qq85, which also has a form that can be downloaded to apply to vote early by mail.

Earlier this month, Galvin said early voting has proven to be "very popular" since the state first instituted it in 2016, and predicted "a good experience" when it is deployed for this year's presidential primary.

Early voters are required to confirm their identity by signing an affidavit. The ballots are then placed in sealed envelopes and stored in a lockbox.

Early votes will be unsealed and counted at the polling stations on March 3, according to state law.

WHO'S ON THE BALLOT?

Democratic Party:

The Democratic Party presidential primary ballot has a crowded field of hopefuls, which hope to oppose President Donald Trump, or a Republican Party nominee for president on Nov. 5.

Democrats seeking to run for president in November include Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D- Massachusetts; Sen. Bernie Sanders, I- Vermont; former Vice-President Joseph Biden; Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D- Minnesota; former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg; Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, D- Hawaii; former South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Peter Buttigieg; and Tom Steyer, a hedge fund manager.

The ballot lists candidates who recently suspended or ended their campaigns. These former hopefuls include: former Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick; Sen. Michael Bennett, D-Colorado; Julian Castro, a former secretary of Housing and Urban Development; John Delaney, a former Maryland Congressman; Andrew Yang, CEO of Venture for America; and Marianne Williamson, an author, and activist.

Republican Party:

President Trump is being challenged for the GOP nomination by former Massachusetts Gov. William F. Weld, and Roque “Rocky” De La Fuente, a businessman.

The Republican Party ballot also lists Joseph Walsh, a former Illinois congressman who recently ended his bid to seek the GOP nomination.

Libertarian Party:

The Libertarian Party has a crowded field of candidates that hope to oppose the Republican and Democratic presidential nominees.

The candidates include Arvin Vohra, Vermin L. Supreme, Jacob G. Hornberger, Samuel J. Robb, Dan Behrman, Kimberly M. Ruff, Kenneth R. Armstrong, Adam Kokesh, Jo Jorgensen, and Max Abramson.

Green-Rainbow Party:

The Green-Rainbow Party ballot nominee hopefuls include Dario Hunter, Sedinam Kinamo Christin Moyowasifza-Curry, Kent Mesplay, and Howard Hawkins.

ABSENTEE BALLOTS AVAILABLE:

Voters who are unable to cast ballots at a polling station because of religious reasons, health issues, or being out of town, can request an absentee ballot from the board of registrars during business hours, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and until noon March 2.

HOW TO REGISTER TO VOTE:

The voter registration period for residents seeking to vote in the upcoming presidential primary ended Feb. 12.

Residents who wish to vote in the state primary election Sept. 1 and the presidential election Nov. 5 can complete a registration form at the board of registrars during business hours at Town Hall.

State and federal laws allow residents who will be 18 or older on the day of an election or primary to register to vote.

State law also permits residents to register to vote at any Registry of Motor Vehicles branch in Massachusetts. Registration forms are available by calling the state Division of Elections at 800-462-8683.

Voter registration forms can also be downloaded from the secretary of state’s website: www.sec.state.ma.us/

(Ed Baker contributed to this article.)