India,China should not be called developing nations: Trump

Loading the player...

'India, China should not be considered developing nations by WTO,' says Donald Trump at Davos

US President Donald Trump on Wednesday said that India and China should not be considered developing nations by World Trade Organisation (WTO). He made the remarks during a press conference on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum 2020 at Davos. Donald Trump has made similar comments before. He had said that these two Asian countries were "taking advantage" of the 'developing nation' tag at the WTO and he would no longer allow it.



World will realise Pakistan's strategic potential once relations with India normalise, says Imran Khan

Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Wednesday said the world will realise the true strategic economic potential of his country when the relationship with India becomes normal, but that has "unfortunately" not been great. He also said his vision is to make Pakistan a welfare state and asserted that economic growth is not possible without peace and stability.



Alphabet CEO Pichai eyes major opportunity in healthcare, says will protect privacy

Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Alphabet Inc and its Google subsidiary, said on Wednesday that healthcare offers the biggest potential over the next five to 10 years for using artificial intelligence to improve outcomes, and vowed that the technology giant will heed privacy concerns. He also spoke at length about harnessing the potential of quantum computing and artificial intelligence in improving lives and how he remains ever optimistic about technology.



'Everyone I met asked about falling Indian economy, social unrest,' says Kamal Nath at Davos

Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister and Congress leader Kamal Nath said that in all the decades he visited Davos, he had never seen such a subdued buzz around India. Speaking to Rahul Kanwal on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum 2020 in Davos, Nath said that all people were asking about was the economic slowdown and the growing social unrest. The MP CM said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi talks about cooperative federalism but when it comes to big issues such as Citizenship Amendment Act, states are not consulted.



Other highlights from the day

Some other issues that the participants at this year's meet touched upon were reskilling the workforce, the power of youth in a changing world, securing a sustainable future for the Amazon and the dangers to the Arctic.

