Event How Can Taiwan Assure Its Innovation Advantage? Evan A. Feigenbaum, Alexa Lee

February 10, 2020

Washington, DC A new Carnegie study proposes an array of specific solutions to promote Taiwan-based innovation, better leverage partnerships with United States and other international players, and bolster Taiwan’s standing in the global marketplace.

Paper Assuring Taiwan’s Innovation Future Evan A. Feigenbaum

January 30, 2020 Taiwan’s innovation advantage is in danger of eroding. It needs a revitalized and broadened strategy, more diverse investments in human capital and next-generation industries, and forward-looking partnerships with the United States.

Book Strategic Asia 2020: U.S.-China Competition for Global Influence Ashley J. Tellis, Alison Szalwinski, Michael Wills

January 21, 2020

National Bureau of Asian Research This book examines how various countries and regions are coping with the Sino-U.S. competition and implications for U.S. policymakers.

After Protest: Pathways Beyond Mass Mobilization Richard Youngs

October 24, 2019 Mass protests garner significant attention, but what happens next is just as vital for achieving real and lasting change.

Alliance Policy Coordination Brief Remaining Aligned on the Challenges Facing Taiwan Michael D. Swaine, Ryo Sahashi

October 10, 2019 Washington and Tokyo should proactively keep common ground amid rising tensions between mainland China and Taiwan.

Op-Ed Sign a Free-Trade Deal With Taiwan Ashley J. Tellis

December 03, 2018

Wall Street Journal Free trade with Taiwan would secure U.S. economic interests while strengthening U.S. alliances with China’s rivals.

China, U.S. Heading for ‘Increasing Confrontation’ Douglas H. Paal

November 09, 2018

Caixin Global

中文

U.S. policy has been, with respect to China, forming a bipartisan consensus in recent years. For Trump to think that a quick deal on trade problems was solved doesn’t seem consistent with the rest of the things his administration says.

Article Is the Taiwan Strait Heading Toward Another Crisis? Jie Dalei

October 31, 2018

中文

The Taiwan Strait is not at immediate risk of a crisis, but a changing status quo and diminishing trust between Beijing, Taipei, and Washington signal possible trouble ahead.

Article The Activist Legacy of Taiwan’s Sunflower Movement Ming-sho Ho

August 02, 2018 Taiwan’s 2014 Sunflower Movement unleashed a wave of youthful activism that has profoundly reshaped the island’s political landscape, showing how activists can effect change through elections.