Some of the crayfish unable to be exported to China due to the coronavirus outbreak will be returned to the sea.

A fisheries business owner has praised the Government for allowing crayfish to be released back into sea - but says annual catch entitlements need to be carried forward to the next fishery year.

Between 150 and 180 tonnes of live rock lobster are being held in pots and tanks, at sea and on land, after export orders were cancelled by Chinese distributors following the coronavirus outbreak.

On Wednesday, Fisheries Minister Stuart Nash said he had agreed that fisheries officials could allow a limited release of rock lobster back into the wild.

Nash said he was "considering" another request from the industry for a technical change to allow catch entitlements to be carried forward to the next fishery year. This would take more time to finalise and he would discuss it further with colleagues, he said.

READ MORE:

* Uncertain future for crayfish unable to be exported due to coronavirus

* Marlborough crayfish business Burkhart Fisheries to star on Country Calendar

* Crayfish company can't find 'permanent solution' to launch boats post-quake

Burkhart Fisheries Ltd co-owner Trevor Burkhart said the decision was positive, but the Government needed to consider that businesses annual catch entitlement (ACE) would have already been purchased.

"Because people can't finish their season off, we need that ACE to be carried forward to the next season," he said.

"You've got fish in holding pots, why would you want to throw that away if you've paid for it, if they're not going to guarantee you can catch it again?

RICKY WILSON/STUFF Dennis and Trevor Burkhart of Burkhart Fisheries Ltd.

"We want to keep them in tip-top condition, so that's the whole idea of getting them back to sea. Then we will catch them back later," he said.

Brother and business partner Dennis Burkhart said it was good to see the Government had moved quickly to make a decision.

He said 94 per cent of their crayfish were exported to China, so they had stopped catching.

"China is our biggest market, all of this happened virtually overnight so it will have an impact," he said.

"With how quick the Government has moved with this decision, I'm sure they'll be logical about other decisions."

RICKY WILSON/STUFF Fisheries Minister Stuart Nash says a change to allow catch entitlements to be carried forward from one fishery year to the next is being considered.

Nash said the situation was "evolving" and acknowledged the rock lobster industry's importance to the New Zealand economy.

It makes a vital contribution to a number of small fishing communities, he said.

Anyone who wanted to release live crayfish would need to provide information to Fisheries New Zealand, and fisheries officers would monitor their return to the sea.

Nash, however, did sound a note of caution.

"The industry would need to find new markets for rock lobster unable to be returned to sea," he said.