Published by The Stray FM News Team at 7:00am 3rd February 2020.

Almost 250 people have called a special helpline, set up by the University of York at the weekend, after it emerged that a student there is one of the two people diagnosed with coronavirus.

The university says the risk to others is low because the student was not on campus or in student accommodation before being exposed to the virus.

In a statement, they add that the student didn't attend a university Chinese New Year celebration at the Barbican - or recent graduation ceremonies.

It's a similar message from City of York Council, which says the city remains open to residents, visitors and students.

Elsewhere:

Public Health England (PHE) has confirmed the two people being treated for the Coronavirus in Newcastle had been staying in York when they fell ill.

They came to the UK from China very recently.

One is a student at The University of York but it's been confirmed that they were not on campus before or after they were exposed to the virus.



The University has set up a call centre to deal with any further queries from staff and students.

PHE says it’s contacting people in the city who it knows had close contact with them.

Anyone in that position will be given emergency contact details to use if they become unwell in the next 14 days.

The PHE definition of close contact is being within two metres of the infected person for 15 minutes.

UNIVERSITY STATEMENT on Saturday



The University’s coronavirus incident response team have held further discussions with senior colleagues in Public Health England. PHE’s analysis of the situation, combined with the University’s own internal investigations, confirm the following: The diagnosed student was not on campus or in student accommodation for the period before they were exposed to the virus. The diagnosed student was not on campus or in student accommodation after being exposed to the virus. This means that we can again reiterate PHE’s assurance that the risk level to our staff and students remains low. Respecting patient confidentiality and the privacy of our student is paramount. We are continuing to monitor the situation closely and we will continue to provide as much advice, care and support as we can to anyone affected by this situation, and as directed by Public Health England. We will continue to post any further information as and when it becomes available.

Coronavirus update: Investigations by Public Health England and the University have confirmed that the affected student was not on campus or in student accommodation for the periods before or after they were exposed to the virus. Further details: https://t.co/MIUqrcyOzn — University of York (@UniOfYork) February 1, 2020

They added on Sunday.



In response to a few enquiries, we can confirm that the affected student did not attend the recent Graduation ceremonies or the student organised Chinese New Year celebration at the Barbican. More than 240 calls have been made to a dedicated helpline The calls have come from staff, students, parents and a small number of members of the public with general concerns and asking for information and guidance.

Some 200 calls were made on Saturday and a further 43 had been received by Sunday afternoon.

Helpline Number 01904 809571

City of York Council issued a fresh statement on Sunday afternoon.

Director of public health Sharon Stoltz said:

Robust infection control measures are in place in York and we are working closely with Public Health England, the Department for Health and Social Care and partners across the city. The risk to individuals living and working in York is low and the city remains very much open to residents, visitors and students.

Health officials are trying to find anyone who came into contact with those two people.

England's chief medical officer Professor Chris Whitty says they're only looking for people who've had prolonged contact with them.

We are looking for people who came into close contact with them, not just passing them on the street. we want to make sure if they have symptoms that we know about it early and are aware of the risk.

News of the development was first made public by Chay Quinn, Chris Small and Jasmine Wells-Dean at the Student Newspaper York Vision.

The University has set up a call centre to deal with any further queries from staff and students.

Call 01904 809571