NEW DELHI: Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi will double down on its premium bid in India in 2020 and wants to establish its Mi brand for products in pricier segments, including smartphones and televisions. It aims to continue to serve the mass market through its Redmi sub-brand for smartphones.“In China, there are clear portfolios for Redmi and Mi. Mi stands for innovation and premium appeal. It has been missing from our portfolio here and we would want to set that up going into 2020,” Xiaomi India Head of Online Sales and Categories Raghu Reddy, told ET.Under the new strategy, Xiaomi will launch a number of premium phones under the Mi brand, besides expanding the smart TV line-up with big-screen premium products. “We will launch a lot more premium flagship devices under the Mi line up. Once we have devices, there will be a clear differentiation between Mi and Redmi,” Reddy said.The company may also look at launching its concept phone, Mi Max Alpha globally and in India. The China price is 19,999 RMB, and India's price could be high as Rs 2,50,000 after including import duty, customers and other expenses.Currently, there is just one factory line in China which is capable of assembling this smartphone.Xiaomi’s ecosystem products are also part of its Mi brand in India, and the company will venture into new Internet of Things (IoT) ecosystem categories this year. It is currently present in four product categories – smart cameras, water purifiers, air purifiers, and smart lighting.“We are going to get into more categories. There is one more portfolio that is available in China and we are evaluating bringing that to India.”Counterpoint Research’s associate director Tarun Pathak believes that the Mi brand will have more appeal and stronger connect with the audience in India. “It is a good step especially globally Mi flagships are perceived as premium for Xiaomi users. This will make a case for Xiaomi for consistent naming and positioning as it enters more markets,” he added.Xiaomi entered the Indian market with its Mi 3 smartphone, followed by the launch of Mi 4 and Mi 5, but the portfolio had taken a back seat as the company focused on its core segment Rs 6,000-Rs 15,000 through the Redmi brand, which helped it become India’s largest handset brand.“…largely our Mi flagship portfolio has been missing since 2017 onwards. The only thing was the Mi A Android One series,” Reddy said.Currently, Xiaomi’s sub Rs 20,000 Android One series is a part of the Mi brand in India, whereas Redmi brand has a premium phone, Redmi K 20 Pro. Asked about the overlap, Reddy said that there could be some overlap, but Mi brand going forward will focus on Rs 20,000 plus smartphone segment.Indian consumers are increasingly looking at upgrading their smartphones and the average selling price (ASP) is increasing as well. “We now believe that this is a meaningful segment for us to go and focus our energy on,” Reddy said.The overall market's average selling price witnessed a healthy growth with 20% yearly growth in 2019, and is expected to hit $200 early this year from almost $140 three years ago, according to Counterpoint data.All BBK Electronics brands – OnePlus , Oppo, Vivo , and Realme – are focusing on the premium segment. OnePlus has consistently maintained its lead in the premium segment (Rs 30,000 and above). It was the only premium smartphone brand to surpass 0.5 million shipments mark the third quarter of 2019.Overall, the premium smartphone segment in India reached its highest ever recorded shipment this quarter with 2.14 million shipment sales in Q3. The segment also witnessed a record yearly growth of 66% this quarter, as per Counterpoint data.Reddy said that Xiaomi has now established a wider distribution and offline retail presence in India along with its own Mi Home setup, which will help the company drive its premium story forward.“The biggest thing about premium products is touch and feel and all Mi homes are built keeping this in mind. We are ready to deliver on each and every aspect of selling premium products,” he added.The executive also maintained that Xiaomi will treat both online and offline channels equally to ensure that the same set of products are available on both channels. “We treat both online and offline to be equally big partners and we will ensure we have the same set of products for both brands,” he added.