Sign up to FREE email alerts from TeessideLive - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A British Steel rescue deal has taken a step forward after the Chinese firm bidding for the steelmaker was given backing from its own regional authorities, according to reports.

Hundreds of Teesside workers , along with thousands across the UK, have been waiting anxiously for news that Jingye Group will buy out the struggling steelmaker.

The Chinese steel firm is the second frontrunner to emerge in the bidding for British Steel with a £50m offer, after talks with Turkish firm Ataer Holdings broke down in the autumn.

According to reports by the Financial Times, Jingye had to obtain approvals from two quangos in the Chinese province of Hebei, where the company is based, before it could proceed with the deal.

(Image: Ian Cooper)

Now the approvals have been received, Jingye is set to meet with unions to discuss its investment plan and terms and conditions of new employment contracts.



The firm is said to have put forward plans to invest £1.2bn in British Steel and increase production by cutting costs.

Jingye is a privately owned Chinese corporation, founded and led by Li Ganpo a former senior Communist Party official who became a self-made industrial tycoon.

The group has interests in steel and manufacturing, chemicals, real estate, finance, trade, pharmaceutical, hotels and tourism and more than 22,000 employees.

The FT has reported that business secretary Andrea Leadsom was "confident of the a sale being finalised soon".

“I am completely committed to getting a good outcome for British Steel and their valued employees at Scunthorpe, Skinningrove and on Teesside,” she told the newspaper.

British Steel collapsed into liquidation in May, threatening 5,000 staff directly - 700 of which work at Teesside's Lackenby and Skinningrove sites - and around 20,000 more in the supply chain.

Alongside the British Steel workers other local firms such as TC Industries, AV Dawson and Caterpillar rely on the company.