They first met during the Vietnam War. After a 35-year search, they met again in the United States. Their story isn’t about an unpopular war or the span of time. It’s about promises made, promises kept, and one last promise soon to become a reality.

In 1968, during the height of the war, George Dzyacky was a 19-year-old sailor serving in Denang, a key military harbor for Uncle Sam. Yung Nguyen was a 13-year-old Vietnamese native with dreams that would someday set sail for a new life in America. One was a boyish man. The other a mannish boy.

Dzyacky was assigned to civil affairs, the military equivalent of the U.S. Peace Corps. His job, in addition to supplying rebuilding materials to dirt-poor natives, was to win the hearts and minds of the Vietnamese people. He would accomplish this mission with at least one native, Nguyen, who was recovering from a landmine injury.

The two teenagers met when Dzyacky’s naval unit needed an interpreter. Nguyen was old enough to understand both languages and young enough to earn the trust of both parties. His skill also earned him spending money, a Honda scooter and living quarters with Dzyacky and his sailor buddies.

Dzyacky’s room was plastered with images of his fiancée, Susan, his sweetheart from Andrean High School. He constantly told Nguyen about someday returning home to Gary, Indiana, to marry her. And he would. Nguyen also had a childhood sweetheart from his village whom he promised to someday marry. And he would.

“George, you have a beautiful girlfriend!” Nguyen repeatedly told Dzyacky. “I hope you marry her.”

They shared a bunk bed. Nguyen slept on the top bunk, often listening to Dzyacky record messages to Susan on reel-to-reel audio tapes, the technology of the day. Fifty years later, Dzyacky still has those tapes, including one with Nguyen saying hello to Susan.

“When I was a boy, George treated me like his little brother,” Nguyen told me through tears in 2007.

That day, he met Dzyacky for the first time in Dzyacky’s Schererville home. Together, they recalled how they met, how they befriended each other amid a war, and how they shared a promised reunion.

“Someday we will return to Vietnam, where we first met,” Nguyen told Dzyacky. “We will return when both countries are at peace, not at war.”

Nguyen never forgot his “big brother.” When he finally tracked him down, Jan. 14, 2003, Nguyen’s first question over the phone was, “Did you marry Susan?”

“Yes,” Dzyacky replied with a smile.

Nguyen’s second question: “Are you still married to her?”

“Yes, I am,” Dzyacky replied, smiling bigger.

Dzyacky, who returned home Jan. 1, 1970, couldn’t believe his old friend also made it to the U.S. His journey was far more perilous. In 1969, after nine months of living together, Dzyacky got transferred to another village. Both men figured their last goodbye would be their final goodbye. It wasn’t.

After they separated, Nguyen got drafted by the South Vietnamese Army. He got wounded and hospitalized, then sent back to the front lines only to again get wounded and hospitalized. Viewed by his countrymen as an American sympathizer, he fled his homeland on a fisherman’s boat into the China Sea.

That’s when he made several promises to himself.

The overcrowded boat capsized and he lost every possession he owned. He was picked up by a U.S. naval ship and, along with other “boat people,” he later wound up in a refugee relocation camp in Alabama. He eventually moved to Virginia where he would fulfill another promise: to find his childhood sweetheart and marry her. She, too, fled Vietnam and wound up in the U.S. They have lived there happily ever after.

Read my two columns about Dzyacky and Nguyen from 2006 and 2007, and view more photos of them, on my Facebook page at www.facebook.com/jerry.davich.

“It’s been a beautiful story,” Nguyen told me last week. “George and I always talked about going back someday to Vietnam with our wives, our childhood sweethearts.”

Last month, Nguyen called Dzyacky to say he made travel plans to return to his homeland to visit his wife’s ailing mother. He asked if Dzyacky and his wife would join them. “It’s our last promise to each other,” Nguyen said.

Dzyacky is now 71. His “little brother” is 65. Dzyacky didn’t need much time to decide. The two couples made plans to meet in Danang, where they will celebrate the men’s 50-year friendship anniversary. Their initial plans had to be bumped back because of concerns over the coronavirus crisis in that major city.

“To speak the words, ‘I’m going to Vietnam’ once again causes me to pause,” Dzyacky told me. “But now I get to say to Susan, ‘and you’re going with me.’ The last time I was there, I didn’t need a visa or to go through customs.”

“Our greatest hope is that the VAT 3 building where I served with U.S. Navy Civil Affairs, and where Yung lived with us, is still standing,” Dzyacky said.

“The building was still there in 2012 when I returned to Vietnam,” Nguyen recalled.

The Dzyacky’s vacation resort there is located on the same property once nicknamed “China Beach” during the war.

“I remember riding a military truck to China Beach with George,” Nguyen recalled.

Once again, Nguyen will serve as an interpreter for Dzyacky, who plans to finally meet Nguyen’s family, something he couldn’t do in 1968. The two men plan to text each other while there, again using the technology of the day.

“Reuniting with George… and then Susan… has been… unbelievable,” Nguyen said, his emotions interrupting his words. “We are so… blessed.”

“Our promise to each other will finally be fulfilled,” Dzyacky added.

And, as I promised to both men in 2007, I will share their story after they return.

jdavich@post-trib.com