Living in the country has taught fashion designer Anita Reiter to be versatile.

"I'm either using chainsaws or designing clothes," the 22-year-old said.

The Rogue Linen director lives and works on a former tobacco farm in the Motueka Valley. Cardboard boxes full of clothing, newly arrived off the production line from her Kiwi-owned factory in China, are stacked high in a shed that once held tobacco.

Her business has a strong ethical and environmental focus, and her designs are "a bit different," Reiter said.

READ MORE:

* Nelson company providing new pattern for sustainable fashion

* Nelson woman's hemp apparel worn by international musician

Braden Fastier/Stuff After humble beginnings, Rogue Linen is now sold in around 30 outlets in New Zealand.

"It's unique, eclectic: not your usual pea in a pod."

The rural property is just five kilometres from her childhood home. Reiter remembers an off-the-grid childhood, with an orchard, home-grown vegetables, sheep and chickens.

Rogue Linen didn't come out of nowhere: her mum, Ulrike, has her own linen label, Smile Clothing, which she sells from her Motueka store.

Reiter mined her mum's contacts and honed the skills she'd picked up from a childhood watching her work.

Braden Fastier/Stuff Two fundamental pillars that prop up Reiter's business is her emphasis on the environment, and sustainability.

But Reiter's vision is very much her own, she said.

"My priority is making a positive impact, going into an industry where I know a lot of unsustainable things are going on."

Despite being a "small fish", after a year in business Rogue Linen is stocked in more than 30 stores and has gained a loyal following.

"I like to think I prioritise trying to make real designs for real women, comfortable and realistic. Something you feel good in; that you don't want to get out of at the end of the day."

Her clients are "conscious consumers," mostly women over 30, Reiter said.

Producing linen requires fewer pesticides and less water than cotton, and its byproducts can be used elsewhere, she said.

Braden Fastier/Stuff Reiter had an idyllic, off-the-grid childhood, with an orchard, home-grown vegetables, sheep and chickens.

There are also benefits for the wearer, with the fabric keeping body temperature low.

"I would love to appeal to all ages but linen fabric is expensive, ethical and high quality means prices are too high for young people.

"And women who are mature appreciate fashion that lasts; when you're 20 you tend to change your wardrobe a lot."

But Reiter is not your average 20-something.

"I wear linen all the time now. Once you wear it you never go back."