Lev Parnas, the indicted associate of Rudy Giuliani, has broken his silence since his arrest to make the claim that President Trump directed his actions in Ukraine.

Parnas came forward along with his lawyer on MSNBC's The Rachel Maddow Show on Wednesday night to say he was not freelancing when he collaborated with Giuliani in an effort to get Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to investigate Trump rival Joe Biden while going after the U.S. ambassador to Ukraine.

'President Trump knew exactly what was going on. He was aware of all my movements. I wouldn't do anything without the consent of Rudy Giuliani, or the president,' Parnas said.

'I have no intent, I have no reason to speak to any of these officials. I mean, they have no reason to speak to me.

'Why would President Zelensky's inner circle, or Minister [Arsen] Avakov, or all these people, or [former Ukranian President Petro Poroshenko] meet with me? Who am I? They were told to meet with me. And that's the secret that they're trying to keep. I was on the ground doing their work.'

Parnas also claimed that Trump canceled Vice President Mike Pence's planned appearance at Zelensky's inauguration last May after Ukrainian officials refused to announce an investigation into the Biden family.

The stunning assertions came just hours before Chief Justice John Roberts is to swear in 100 U.S. senators who are to act as a jury weighing two articles of impeachment against the president.

Indicted Rudy Giuliani associate Lev Parnas says Donald Trump was directly involved in an alleged attempt to pressure the Ukrainian government to investigate political rival Joe Biden

Parnas and his lawyer Joseph Bondy spoke to MSNBC's Rachel Maddow in an interview aired Wednesday night

Parnas said his work in the Ukraine was with the consent of Rudy Giuliani and the president. A trove released Tuesday revealed a Giuliani letter to the president of Ukraine seeking a meeting and citing Trump's consent

The impeachment inquiry was sparked by allegations the Trump administration tried to pressure Zelensky to dig up dirt on former Vice President Joe Biden and his son Hunter, who served on the board of Ukrainian energy firm Burisma.

Parnas, who is accused of federal campaign finance violations, has submitted a trove of documents to the House Intelligence Committee pertaining to his dealings in the Ukraine, a portion of which were made public on Tuesday.

The documents included a letter in which Giuliani requested a private meeting with Zelensky, stating that he had Trump's 'knowledge and consent' to make the request.

Speaking to Maddow, Parnas insisted that Trump was aware he and Giuliani were working on the effort in Ukraine specifically to hurt Joe Biden, a current favorite for the Democratic presidential nomination.

'It was never about corruption, it was strictly about Burisma, which included Hunter Biden and Joe Biden,' he said.

Parnas also said he had no doubt that Pence and Attorney General William Barr were kept in the loop.

Parnas said he had no doubt that Vice President Mike Pence and Attorney General William Barr were kept in the loop about efforts to dig up dirt on the Bidens

Parnas and another Giuliani associate, Igor Fruman, were arrested in October on campaign finance charges for allegedly making $325,000 in illegal straw donations to a Trump super PAC.

Asked why he decided to speak out now, Parnas told Maddow: 'I want to get the truth out. I feel it's important for our country. I think it's important for me.'

Trump has previously denied knowing Parnas or Fruman, despite photos Parnas posted on Facebook in 2018 of himself with the president and his son Don Jr.

Asked about Trump's denial, Parnas said: 'He lied. He knew exactly who we were.'

Parnas accused Trump of lying when he said he didn't know him or his associate Igor Fruman

Parnas said that he was 'absolutely' working for the president in his capacity as a legal aide to Giuliani, Trump's personal lawyer.

He said that he introduced himself to Ukrainian officials as a representative for Giuliani and the president.

Parnas addressed reports of his conversation with senior Zelensky aide Sergey Schafer, confirming that he told Schafer military aid would not be released to the Ukraine unless Zelensky announced investigations into Joe Biden.

'Basically, the message that I was supposed to, that I gave Sergey Schafer was a very harsh message that was told to me to give it to him in a very harsh way, not a pleasant way,' he said.

'Rudy told me after, you know meeting the president at the White House, the message was it wasn't just military aid, it was all aid. Basically their relationships would be sour, that we would stop giving them any kind of aid.'

'Unless…?' Maddow pressed.

'Unless — there were several demands at that point. A, the most important was the announcement of the Biden investigation,' Parnas explained.

He went on to say that he also held out the promise of a White House visit for then-president elect Zelensky.

'I know it sounds crazy, but more support from the president, by having a White House visit, by having a big inauguration, by having the dignitaries there,' Parnas said.

'The announcement was the key at that time because of the inauguration, that [Vice President Mike] Pence would not show up. Nobody would show up to the inauguration.'

The impeachment inquiry was sparked by allegations the Trump administration tried to pressure Ukrainian President Volodomyry Zelensky (pictured) to dig up dirt on former Vice President Joe Biden and his son Hunter

Parnas said he relayed that apparent threat to Schafer on May 12, eight days before the inauguration.

He claimed Schafer told him that he would get back to him, and then blocked him on WhatsApp that night.

After Parnas updated Giuliani, the former New York City Mayor allegedly told him: 'Okay, they'll see.'

'To my awareness, Trump called up and said to make sure Pence doesn't go there,' Parnas told Maddow.

'You believe Mr Pence's trip to the inauguration was canceled because [Ukraine] didn’t agree?' Maddow asked.

'Oh I know 100 percent. It was 100 percent,' Parnas replied.

'The chain of events, that was key to where we are today,' he added. 'After that, take a look at what transpires. Next within the next couple days, they realize that now they get word. Obviously when Pence cancels, they get word. So now they realize that what I was telling them was true.'

Asked whether he knew if Pence was aware that that was the reason the inaugural visit was called off, Parnas quoted something EU Ambassador Gordon Sondland said while testifying in the House impeachment inquiry: 'Everybody was in the loop.'

Parnas also said that Barr, Trump's attorney general, likely knew what was going on.

He said he never personally spoke to Barr but was present during 'lots of conversations' that Giuliani and another person had with Barr.

'Mr Barr had to have known everything. I mean, it's impossible,' Parnas said. 'Attorney General Barr was basically on the team.'

Giuliani and Parnas are seen having coffee at the Trump International Hotel in Washington D.C. in September, one month before Parnas was indicted for campaign finance violations

Parnas attorney Joseph Bondy (left) tweeted a picture of himself and his client with Maddow ahead of the interview Wednesday night

Parnas' involvement in that 'team' is laid bare in the cache of documents he's handed over to the House Intelligence Committee, which paint him as a middleman between Giuliani and Ukrainian officials.

They also provided additional details about the apparent campaign to remove Marie Yovanovitch from her post as US Ambassador to Ukraine last spring because she was impeding efforts to dig up dirt on the Bidens.

Parnas expressed regret over his involvement in ousting Yovanovitch, saying: 'I want to apologize to her.'

Yovanovitch was the focus of text messages between Parnas and prominent Trump donor Robert F Hyde, which were made public on Tuesday.

Hyde, a Republican congressional candidate from Connecticut, repeatedly disparaged Yovanovitch in the messages and implied that she was under surveillance, often referencing her exact physical location.

However, Parnas told Maddow that while he was 'disturbed' by Hyde's messages, he never believed they were serious.

'I don't believe it was true, I think he was either drunk or was trying to make himself bigger than he was,' he said. 'I didn't take it seriously, and if you see, I didn't even respond to it most of the time.'

Maddow questioned whether Hyde could have been drunk throughout their text correspondence, which lasted several days.

Parnas replied: 'He's drunk the whole time. He wakes up and he's drunk. He starts at 6. I've never seen him not drunk.'

Hyde himself reacted to the release of the messages on Tuesday night.

He did not dispute the validity of the texts but said he was drinking when he sent the ones about surveiling Yovanovitch.

Some of the text messages Parnas submitted to House investigators were between him and Robert Hyde, a GOP congressional candidate in Connecticut and prominent Trump donor. Hyde and the president are pictured together in an undated Facebook photo

WhatsApp messages appear to show Hyde tracking the movements of Marie Yovanovitch

'Guess you can do anything in the Ukraine with money,' Hyde wrote in one message

Just before the MSNBC interview aired, House officials released a second set of documents submitted by Parnas' legal team.

Among the confusing trove of information is one message that identifies first daughter Ivanka Trump, a key advisor who Trump pointed out by name during remarks lauding a new deal with China in the White House Wednesday.

Trump lawyer Victoria Toensing, in a message to Parnas, mentions Ivanka in a discussion about a White House meeting. 'POTUS stood us up and sent Ivanka to speak in his stead. Victoria,' reads the message, dated March 3rd, amid the Ukrainian elections.

'That's what Rudy said,' Parnas replied. The messages are proceeded and succeeded by blacked out information.

A White House spokesperson didn't immediately respond to a question about the Ivanka message.

Another message references the president's eldest son, Don Jr., who helps run the Trump Organization.

'What should I send don to tweet,' writes Joseph Ahearn, who is listed by pro-Trump super PAC America First Policies as director of development in a March 20 message to Parnas.

Parnas replies: 'Wait tomorrow good stuff.'

'What should I send don to tweet,' writes Joseph Ahearn, who is listed by pro-Trump super PAC America First Policies as director of development, to Parnas

Attorney Victoria Toensing writes Parnas that the president 'stood us up and sent Ivanka to speak in his stead'

The documents include a series of back-and-forth messages about getting a retainer completed. An April, 2019 message from Parnas seeks to have it translated into Russian

'I WILL NOT BE BROKEN!' Giuliani complained former special counsel Robert Mueller was stalling his flight departure.

A Parnas text about a retainer mentioned a figure at the Ukraine ministry of justice

Another message is from Thomas Hicks Jr. Thomas O. Hicks Jr is co-chair of the Republican National Committee

Parnas has been photographed multiple times with Trump and key Trump World figures, including Don Jr.

A March 20 message includes a link to a story by John Solomon in The Hill that included some of Giuliani's claims about Ukrainian corruption. Another linked to a show by Fox News host Sean Hannity.

'Have jr retweet it,' writes Parnas.

'Sent,' responds Ahearn a minute later.

On March 24, 2019, Trump Jr. retweeted a link to a DailyWire story about pressure to remove the U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, Marie Yovanovitch.

'We need more ⁦@Richard Grenell's and less of these jokers as ambassadors. Calls Grow To Remove Obama's U.S. Ambassador To Ukraine,' wrote the president's son.

Other messages connect Parnas with shipping magnate Harry Sargeant III who has denied claims of involvement in a plan to export U.S. natural gas to Ukraine. When Parnas mentioned a coming meeting in Vienna, Sargeant responded: 'Just becoming expensive flying u guys everywhere LEV.'

Parnas and his associate Igor Fruman, both born in the former Soviet Union, have pleaded not guilty to the charges against them. Parnas lawyer Joseph Bondy says his client wants to testify and has been urging federal authorities to interview him.

Many of the matters referenced in his trove of electronic information were the subject of a House Democratic impeachment inquiry, which focused on the firing of Yovanovitch and efforts to get the Ukrainians to probe Ukrainian energy firm Burisma, where Hunter Biden served on the board.

Messages revealed Tuesday appeared to show an effort to surveil the movements of Yovanovitch.