PEDRO Paterno fell almost into oblivion as soon as he passed away in 1910. Some scholars needed to mention him eventually because of his role during the revolution or his exchange of letters with Jose Rizal and his family, but he is not the most palatable individual in Philippine history. His personality did not help much, to be honest. He was a bit flamboyant, far from humble and willing all too often to be surrounded by people of distinction, both in Spain and the Philippines. His desire to be always at the top was at times very explicit and provoked merciless sarcastic comments from Pardo de Tavera. León María Guerrero called him an “incorrigible snob.” Resil Mojares, only recently, presented a more balanced view of this figure in his formidable Brains of the Nation (2006).

I am of the opinion, however, that he was an outstanding individual, and he deserves recognition for his achievements. Let me explain.





Pedro Paterno was born in 1857 in Sta. Cruz, Manila. His roots were both Filipino and Chinese, and the family prospered thanks to their lighterage business in the port of Manila. He studied at the Ateneo and was one of the first Filipinos to have pursued further education in Spain. He studied philosophy and theology at the Universidad de Salamanca, the oldest in Spain, and received a doctoral degree in Civil Law from the Universidad Central de Madrid, today’s Universidad Complutense. I am not sure, but he might have been the first Filipino to get a PhD abroad.

The early compromise of the Paternos with the Philippine cause can be exemplified by his father, who was sent as a prisoner to the Mariana Islands in 1872, as he was seen to be a conspirator against Spain.

Paterno, in the meantime, led the life of a distinguished gentleman, living with great leisure in the very center of Madrid, in a house where he received the most distinguished intellectuals of Spain: Emilio Castelar, Ramón de Campoamor and José Zorrila. He undoubtedly used his money wisely to gain influential friendships.

In 1880 he envisioned for the first time the creation of a “Biblioteca Filipina,” a book series of Philippine authors. He was the first to realize that literature was a tool that could help to legitimize the idea of a Philippine nation. He was the first one to see that complaining about colonial grievances was not enough to obtain independence. An intellectual battle had to be made, one asserting the creativity of the Filipino people, their capacity to create meritorious literary works, the existence of history prior to the arrival of the Spaniards and, most importantly, the consistency of a distinctive Filipino identity. His intellectual and literary career, no matter the flaws it had, was motivated by this noble impulse, and not just by the desire of getting recognition.

Poesías Líricas y Dramáticas (1880) and Sampaguitas (1881) were books of poetry in the romantic fashion, and in 1885, he published Ninay, the first modern novel ever authored by a Filipino. It was an impossible and a bit cheesy love story, peppered with explanations of Philippine traditions, that in many instances resembles the Noli Me Tangere of Rizal. Undeniably, it was a weak attempt, but I have to say in Paterno’s defense that his use of the Spanish language in that book was masterful and he had no model to follow. Who else was there to imitate? No one. He was probably never aware, but he was founding the path of a tradition — that of modern Philippine literature.

He abandoned fiction temporarily and started to write books on pre-hispanic Philippines, anthropology and history in a very prolific way. With the exception of his contemporary, Isabelo de los Reyes, no one dared to attempt such an important task: to write about the Philippines, finally, from a purely Philippine perspective. Scholars again criticize those works for their lack of methodology or excess of imagination, but those faults are typical of anthropological and historical works at that time, with very few exceptions.

His role in the Pact of Biak-na-Bato (1897) was one of a peacemaker, a neutral middle person between the revolutionaries and the official government in order to stop a war. Peacemakers are very much appreciated today: their goal is to avoid bloodshed, But Philippine historiography has found the revolutionaries more likeable. Paterno wasn’t a traitor or coward at all: he just believed revolution was not the right way to achieve the desired goal.

Lastly, he was briefly imprisoned by the United States colonial government. Upon his release, he started a newspaper, wrote a few operas, more histories and short stories. His engagement in politics, taking part in an electoral campaign, was stopped by his sudden death.

Paterno could have devoted himself to a lavish and easy life, to just supervise family businesses, as many others did at the time. He, instead, chose the intellectual battle in the years when very few dared to do it, where the mere fact of writing could lead to detention and execution. And despite his eccentricities, he always presented himself with pride as a Filipino, as a person who felt, in his own words, “the patriotic fire.”