© Photo/Matthew Tota/Telegram & Gazette, Worcester, Mass./TNS Seven brewers got together to brew the Northeast Grainshed Grisette, using 100% local ingredients. Proceeds from the beer will help support the Grainshed's mission of increasing consumersí knowledge about local grains and the pieces of the supply chain that support the regionís bread and beverage makers ñ malt houses, mills and farms. [Photo/Matthew Tota]

As craft beer drinkers, we buy into the importance of supporting something local. But do we care as passionately about the ingredients used in that beer, whether the brewer chose malt or hops from farms in their region, rather than ordering in bulk online or over the phone?

Five brewers from the Northeast believe we should. They have joined others in industries reliant on malt barley and wheat — the bakers, distillers and maltsters — in creating a nonprofit focused on building awareness and demand for locally grown grains.

Formed last year, the Northeast Grainshed (hyperlink to https://northeastgrainshed.com/) is launching a marketing campaign to increase consumer knowledge about local grains and the pieces of the supply chain that support the region's bread and beverage makers — malt houses, mills and farms.

The group also wants to see measurable increases in farming acreage within their "grainshed," which spans New York and New England, by getting more brewers, bakers and distillers to incorporate local grains. With this greater demand, they hope to entice farmers to dedicate more of their land to growing grains.

"For me as an individual, it was kind of a rallying cry from a lot of like-minded people that we need to shore up our supply of raw ingredients," said Wormtown Brewery brewmaster Ben Roesch, a founding member of the Grainshed. "Being a brewer, I can pick up the phone and order malts any day of the week, but normally they don't come from somewhere near me. It's like the avocados you see at the supermarket."

Arranging for local malt and hops requires more coordination and planning than ordering the ingredients online or over the phone, Roesch said. He would know: From the beginning Wormtown has emphasized choosing local ingredients for their brews.

It started about a decade ago, when the brewery made a serious beer with a very witty, very funny name.

That beer, "Mass Whole," is now an American lager, released almost as regularly as the brewery's bellwether IPA, Be Hoppy. But at the time, Mass Whole's style was based on whatever local ingredients Roesch could find. At the start, he would only brew a batch or two of the beer a year, sourcing the malt from Hadley's Valley Malt and the hops from Four Star Farms in Northfield, which both opened around the same time as Wormtown.

Over the years, Roesch has taken his commitment to brewing with Massachusetts malt and hops further, with Mass Whole inspiring Wormtown's credo, "A Piece of Mass in Every Glass." "We were using one local ingredient in every beer," he said. "Then it grew from there to where we want to keep a certain percentage of what we do in our beers local." Last year alone, for example, Wormtown purchased 100,000 pounds of malt from Valley Malt.

The Grainshed was formed with the mission of showing consumers why it matters where their favorite brewers, bakers, distillers and millers source their grains. "Consumer demand is the way to get to the next level," Roesch said, who joined the Grainshed with fellow Massachusetts brewers JC Tetreault, co-founder of Trillium Brewing Co. in Canton and Boston, and Matthew Steinberg, founder of Framingham's Exhibit 'A' Brewing Co.

Crucially, members of the Grainshed have been able to visualize how their use of local grains looks on a farmer's field.

"One of our goals is being able to quantify our impact as a brewery or as a baker or as a miller, so we set up a square-foot calculator, and people can input what they're doing, whether brewing or baking, and calculate their usage of local grains, and what that square footage would be on a local farm," Roesch said.

Last month, the Grainshed held its first public event, a symposium at Trillium in Canton that brought together more than 200 people, many representing businesses that depend on grain.

Before the event, seven breweries got together to brew the Northeast Grainshed Grisette, a low-alcohol, citrusy Belgian style made entirely from grains grown and malted by farms and malt houses in the Northeast. Row 34 in Boston, The Dirty Truth in Northampton and Clover Food Lab in Cambridge, all members of the Grainshed, joined in the collaboration by serving the beer in their restaurants. The grisette is also on available at BirchTree Bread Co. in Worcester and Reunion Tap & Table in Grafton.

The proceeds from the beer will be donated to start the Grainshed's nonprofit, Roesch said. Once formed, the nonprofit will be recruiting new members, who will support it through yearly dues. Already, he said, more than a dozen companies have signed up.

The list of Massachusetts breweries that have committed to brewing with local grains is small, but growing. Those not buying from local maltsters often attribute their hesitancy to questions about quality. Perhaps that was a legitimate concern early on, Roesch said, but it's no longer the case with today's malt houses.

"The quality hurdle has been jumped over many times," he said.

Likely, he said, the breweries that have not jumped at buying local malts don't want to pay the extra cost, "which is ironic because their customers are paying a premium for local beer."

"To me," he said, "local ingredients mean local beer."

Roesch's fidelity to his region's farmers and maltsters goes beyond brewing. Recently, he started Ground Up, a flower milling company, with the owners of Valley Malt, Andrea and Christian Stanley. They acquired a four-foot-wide, 6,000-pound granite mill made by New American Stone Mills in Elmore, Vermont.

Run from Valley Malt, Ground Up is now producing about 2,000 pounds of high-quality flour a week, all from local grain. BirchTree has been one of Ground Up's biggest customers.

"It has been a really personal passion project," Roesch said.

———

©2020 Telegram & Gazette, Worcester, Mass.

Visit Telegram & Gazette, Worcester, Mass. at www.telegram.com

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.