Economic and business update in the Gambia.

During my second write-up, I did browse on the business climate in the Gambia, Ghana and Nigeria. Ghana and Nigeria have gone thru myriads of coup d’états and counter coups before finally settling into a democratic environment with peaceful transition from civilian president to civilian president for about a decade now. The result of this peaceful and democratic reality ushered in a boom in the economic performance of these two countries despite hiccups here and there, which over time will be self-resolving as faith and confidence take precedence over pessimism and doubts. Today The Ghanaian and Nigerian economies register between 6% and 9% GDP growth annually despite the world financial and economic chocks here and there around the world. Nigeria has even gone further to trade with China using the Yuan and the Naira as accepted currencies at both central banks bypassing major world currencies. This new reality will ease trade, economic and financial transactions and will boost bilateralrelations further. I do hope Ghana will follow suit soon, and why not the Gambia since over 60% of our trade volume is with China.

We have seen president Trump insisting on trade balances with the rest of world but we will never hear an Africancountry insisting on balancing trade deficits with other countries around the world why? It is simply because these countries are also lenders to our governments therefor oureconomies cannot sustain a trade war as seen done bypresident Trump since he assumed power.

Economic power is therefor extremely important if Africans want to make there voices heard around the world. A case in point is, despite the fact that rich Arab countries have no military power, their economic might attract world powers and sometimes we see them bow down in front of the King of Saudi Arabia for securing contracts, so money counts a lot indeed.

I for one do believe that Africa is richer than any continent in this world if only we love each other and start harnessing our GOD given natural resources to our exclusive interest first and foremost and then the rest of the world.

In the course of history the richest man on the planet was King Mansa Musa of Mali still unmatched by anyone up to present. Didn’t they say that countries have no friends but interest? Indeed that is surely true.

I will reserve how to go about using our natural resources potentials to benefit Africa first and foremost before anyone else in another write-up. For now let me try torespond to some the questions raised during my last write up. Some of the readers express pessimism in doing business in the Gambia. Here I will say all depends on the business venture, the way it is managed, the market size and competition therein. These are factors to consider when venturing into business. Administrative red tapes and corruption of certain officials will die down naturally if exposed without fear or favor to whom it may concern. Do remember that these administrative ills are found all over the world. Another point to consider is that when investing in business, do not only look at your area of expertise but rather which arrears are not crowded to enter and make money. Remember money has only one attribute and value that is money itself. Therefore do not involve yourself in self-pride of being seen selling fish or pottery when money is there to make. Thirdly make sure you do not mix capital and profit and try to always plough back some the profits made into the capital to make it grow bigger. For illustration, see how Fullas begin humbly with colanuts then street tables, then kiosk, then street shops then become wholesalers and finally importers of commodities. There isa lesson to learn therein this business route to growing frompetty trader to major importer. Now some these Fullas are gradually moving into manufacturing and packaging and thereby creating more economic value and employment. That is the way forward.

Economic power is the only viable solution in eradicating poverty and creating employment.

Pa Njie Girigara.