She is the champagne-swigging, high-heel-wearing, feather boa-swathed diplomat who has spent the last two years shaking up the staid world of the United Nations in New York. And now she is about to become Our Woman in Washington DC. Dame Karen Pierce is not only Britain’s first female Ambassador to the United States, she takes on the role at one of the trickier moments in the long history of the Special Relationship, tasked with wooing a volatile President at a time when the UK is navigating its way through a post-Brexit global landscape. The day before her appointment was announced, it emerged that Donald Trump had become so enraged while dressing down Boris Johnson over the Government’s decision to allow the Chinese firm Huawei access to Britain’s 5G network that he hung up on him. Tensions were already heightened following the US’s refusal to extradite diplomat’s wife Anne Sacoolas over the death of motorcyclist Harry Dunn. The opening in DC came about after another embarrassing diplomatic spat between the two allies last summer, following the leak of secret cables containing candid remarks written by then-Ambassador Kim Darroch about President Trump. When the President made Ambassador Darroch persona non grata, refusing to work with him, he had little choice but to step aside. Entering such a troubled waters would be daunting for any new ambassador, but those who have worked with Dame Karen say she will handle her new responsibilities as she does everything else – with aplomb. One official who knows her well says: “It was a very smart move to get someone as unconventional as Karen into the Trump White House. She is absolutely the antithesis of Kim Darroch, which is presumably why she was chosen.

“She got on extremely well with Boris Johnson when he was Foreign Secretary – I think he found her refreshing. She’s very un-Foreign Office, very different from the Men in Grey Suits who are the usual Foreign Office fare. “She isn’t boring – and that’s obviously what Downing Street want from their senior people.” Dame Karen is indeed far from the stereotypical ex-public school diplomat. She grew up in Preston, Lancashire, “reading boys’ books and drawing fighter jets in art class.” Her father worked as an architectural draftsman while her mother was a secretary. It was her mother who insisted the young Karen, her only child, take elocution lessons. After excelling at a state grammar school, Penwortham Girls, she went on to become the first person in her family to attend university, where she was among the last to attend the all-female Girton College, Cambridge, before it became co-ed. It was at Cambridge that she met her future husband, Charles Roxburgh, at a sherry party; the couple went on to have two sons, who are now in their 20s. Mr Roxburgh too is a senior civil servant, currently number two at the Treasury. Inspired by Margaret Thatcher’s 1979 election, and the message it sent that a woman could reach the top, Mrs Pierce joined the Foreign Office in 1981. She had become interested in foreign affairs as a 15-year-old after seeing an article featuring a glamourous African American diplomat, thought to be Eleanor Hicks, who was US Consul in Nice in the 1950s. The rule requiring women to give up their posts upon marriage had been scrapped only seven years before her arrival, but Dame Karen rose through the ranks swiftly, serving first in Japan and later the Balkans, Geneva and Afghanistan before getting the job she always wanted, Ambassador to the UN, in 2018. There she impressed everyone she met – including Nikki Haley, her US counterpart, and even President Trump.

Karen Pierce arrives for a recent lunch held by Donald Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner - she apparently impressed the US President Credit : Anadolu