Ms Miao Wang and Flinders Mayor Jane McNamara discussing the meatworks facility in Hughenden this week.

ENGINEERS designing the Hughenden Meatworks and Feedlot have met with contractors in the town in a bid to shore up local employment opportunities.

It comes after Flinders Shire Council signed a deed with its Chinese partner in July last year to progress the project.



The facility, which will be built on a site on the Old Richmond Rd, about 5km west of Hughenden will process between 800 to 1500 head of cattle daily once operational in 2022.



Chinese investor Ms Mioa Wang, representing CNVM Investment Pty Ltd, this week joined with project engineers to discuss opportunities for local contractors to help construct the facility.



Flinders Shire Mayor Jane McNamara said council had been working closely with CNVM since the Hughenden Processing Facility Project Development Deed was signed on July 27.

Cr McNamara said the team had been working closely with the Coordinator General's Office since then to assist with required applications and the process going forward.

Jane McNamara, Max Feng, Andy Gao and Miao Wang at the site of the Hughenden meatworks.

"There's applications that need to be made and also environmental processes, so it is best for Miao and her company to be guided in the process by the people who deal with the project.

"This week has been to bring company representatives out here who will be involved with the engineering and design of the meatworks, to have a look at the land, the foundations for the size of the footprint and to make sure the engineering is correct."

Cr McNamara said she expected the engineering and design process would take about six months, and construction would commence sometime after that, pending government approvals.



She said Ms Wang and the engineers had met with local businesses during the week to discuss the project, with a view to employing as many local contractors during construction.

The facility is expected to create 200 jobs once operational.

The story Meatworks planning progresses in north west Queensland first appeared on North Queensland Register.