Next week The World Mycotoxin Forum will take place in Bangkok, Thailand. The 12th WMF conference opening on Monday January the 13th.

The aim of WMFmeetsASIA is to increase the awareness of human and animal health risks due to mycotoxin contamination. It offers a platform for the food and feed industry, science and regulatory authorities to exchange current knowledge, to promote harmonisation of food and feed safety regulations and control procedures, and to make recommendations for integrated strategies ensuring the safety and security of food and feed supply chains.

High-quality speakers, ample time for discussions, and every opportunity to establish rewarding contacts are values WMFmeetsASIA wants to uphold. And the event also promises to have an interesting social programme. The General Conference Chairs, Prof. Rudolf Krska and Prof. Chris Elliott, and the members of the Steering Committee and Advisory Committee are looking forward to meeting you.

Dr Awanwee Petchkongkaew of Thammasat University, Thailand is part of the steering committee of the World Mycotoxin Forum meets Asia. According to Dr Petchkongkkaew improper and inadequate storage conditions along with climate change within the region make ASEAN agricultural commodities including cereal grains and their processed food products frequently contaminated with mycotoxins and emerging mycotoxins. Which could lead to health risks for ASEAN and global populations.

Prof Yang Liu of the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences will present his work on biological detoxification at the World Mycotoxin Forum meets Asia. Prof Yang Liu explains why degradation of mycotoxins into non-toxic metabolites can be an important strategy to reduce exposure to mycotoxins.

FeedChat: In this podcast, Vincent ter Beek (editor of Pig Progress – sister publication of All About Feed) explores the timely topic of mycotoxins together with Trouw Nutrition’s Pedro Miguel Caramona. He is the company’s global programme manager for mycotoxin risk management and has many years of experience in the mycotoxin business.