Many Yishunites will know that veteran Hong Kong actor Benz Hui is living in the hood.

Advertisement

Hui has purchased a six-room bungalow in Yishun, where his family resides, spanning 4,000 square feet.

According to earlier reports, the renovation works for the house cost them S$4 million.

House tour by Benz Hui and family

Most recently, the 71-year-old was featured in a Chinese programme “Be My Guest” hosted by Channel 8 host Tung Soo Hua.

In the episode, Hui showed Tung around in Hong Kong and also invited him to his house in Yishun.

For the first time, Hui and his family showed the public the interior of his house.

It has a swimming pool at the front yard, a high-ceiling living room, dining area on the first level as well as two rooms on each level.

Hui’s wife, Lung Yinyi, described the pool as “deceivingly deep” and said they will get some exercise done there sometimes.

Advertisement

Hui’s living room and dining area also appear pretty spacious and well-furnished for gatherings.

Living room:

Dining area:

Advertisement

There are two bedrooms on the higher floors and Lung said that this is so that everyone gets some personal space.

Corridor area between two bedrooms:

There’s also a family room catered to the younger ones, where they can play cards or board games.

A family room with a swing chair:

Plans to retire in Singapore

During the interview, Hui mentioned that his family, particularly his wife Lung Yin-yi and daughter Charmaine Hui, has been shuttling between Hong Kong and Singapore over the past 30 years.

The younger Hui graduated from Hong Kong Baptist University late last year and is considering furthering her studies in Singapore.

Lung and the younger Hui return to Singapore at least once a month, the older Hui said. While Hui is the sponsor of the air tickets, he does not fly back as often due to work.

During the interview with Tung, Hui said that the house in Yishun has made him reluctant to go because it’s so comfortable.

When asked about his favourite corner in the house, the family man said that he likes every corner that his wife and daughter designed.

Advertisement

Interested to venture into F&B

Hui, currently a Singapore PR, said that he has applied for citizenship in Singapore and hopes that his application will be successful.

Lung also added that Hui will be settling down in Singapore after making some arrangements and finishing up his work in Hong Kong.

Hui cited safety as the main reason behind his decision to retire here in Singapore.

When asked about their retirement plans, Hui indicated his interest to start a small business here, such as opening bubble tea shops, but they are still keeping their options open.

Advertisement

You can watch the full episode here:

Top photo collage via 8World News’ video screengrabs