Head to Anaheim to see what’s breaking new in robotics and smart manufacturing. On February 11-13, the combined shows, Automation Technology Expo West (ATX) and Pacific Design & Manufacturing (D&M), will present conference sessions and exhibits that reveal the tomorrow’s manufacturing technology.

Mark February as the month to discover what's emerging in robotics and smart manufacturing technology. (Image source: Design News)

“Whether you're a design engineer, a C-suite executive in manufacturing, or you’re in operations and looking for solutions to streamline production, ATX West is where you will make connections and receive technical education,” Suzanne Deffree, brand director of ATX and D&M told Design News. As for the design and manufacturing show, Deffree explained that the “Pacific D&M is for anyone who is interested in learning more about design services and technologies.”

Disruption Continues In Manufacturing

The opening keynote session on Tuesday, Feb. 11 at 8:30, Tech Disruptors Transforming the Robotics Revolution, will bring together those who have seen disruption first hand. This expert panel will look at next-gen human-robot interfaces and developments in smart manufacturing. The panelists include:

Lori Jordan, former director for AI & ML at Microsoft; Richard Leparmentier, VP of engineering at Auris Health; and Hari Nayar, principal technologist at the Robotic Surface Mobility Group at the Nasa Jet Propulsion Laboratory.

The program will look at the top trends in mobility, manipulation, and programming using advanced sensors. Other topics will include trends in design of both system architectures that support operating processes, to critical design elements important for new product development.

The Innovation Mindset

The ATX and D&M conferences will close with the Feb. 13 Thursday keynote, Adventurous 10X Thinking – Building the Resilient Mindset for Better Innovation by Sally Dominguez, a multi-award-winning inventor and adventurer. The ideas in her Adventurous Thinking methodology have been used by the Shenzhen government, Genentech, Sandisk, and Clif Bar, among others.

During this interactive session, Dominguez will activate your 10X mindset using the Parkour lens, introduce you to the Innovation Quadrant tool, and explain key factors for exponential growth, including:

Keep your eye out for our next article that will explore the individual sessions coming up at ATX and D&M this February.

Rob Spiegel has covered automation and control for 19 years, 17 of them for Design News. Other topics he has covered include supply chain technology, alternative energy, and cyber security. For 10 years, he was owner and publisher of the food magazine Chile Pepper.