China’s largest ride-hailing platform Didi Chuxing will launch services in Sydney in mid-March 2020, as the company attempts to further expand its operations beyond the current seven cities in Australia.

Beijing-based Didi Chuxing, which serves almost 90 per cent of all ride-hailing bookings in China, will start to offer ride-hailing services in Sydney on March 16, 2020. The company will first deliver its carpooling service DiDi Express, and DiDi Max, which provides seven-seater vehicles to passengers, Didi Chuxing announced in a statement on Monday (February 17).

Didi, which initially entered the Australian market in May 2018, now offers three services – DiDi Max, as well as carpooling services DiDi Express and DiDi Share – in Geelong, Melbourne, Newcastle, Brisbane, Gold Coast and Sunshine Coast, as well as Perth.

“Didi’s driver-partners have served over two million riders across Australia. Introducing our services to the global economic and cultural hub of Sydney is a major milestone for our young team here,” said Lyn Ma, general manager of DiDi Australia, in the statement.

Established in June 2012 by former Alibaba employee Cheng Wei, Didi offers a range of app-based transportation services such as taxi, express, designated driving, bike-sharing, and food delivery to about 550 million users in China and worldwide. Tens of millions of drivers who find flexible work opportunities on the Didi platform provide over 10 billion passenger trips a year, shows the information on the company website.

Apart from China and Australia, Didi also has operations in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Japan and Mexico.

The company holds stakes in ride-hailing counterparts, including Grab and Ola in Asia, Lyft in the United States, Careem in the Middle East, and Taxify in Europe.

Valued at $5.5 billion by the Hurun Global Unicorn List 2019, Didi has so far raised at least $21.2 billion through 18 investments. In the latest transaction, Toyota Motor Corp invested $600 million in Didi as well as a new joint venture in July 2019, as the companies plan to jointly develop connected and electric vehicles in China.