On January 12, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi, during a joint meeting with Zimbabwe Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Trade Moyo in Harare, answered questions on the achievements made since the establishment of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation and its role in promoting the development of China-Africa relations.

Wang Yi said, this year marks the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the China-Africa Cooperation Forum. Over the past 20 years, the Forum has become an important platform for collective dialogue and an effective mechanism for practical cooperation between China and Africa, maintaining a leading position in international cooperation with Africa. The 2018 Forum Beijing Summit was a great success, and China-Africa leaders unanimously decided to build a closer China-Africa community with a shared future, defining the general direction of joint efforts.

Wang Yi said, after years of accumulation, the results of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation have spread all over Africa. In terms of infrastructure, China has built more than 6000 kilometers of railways and roads respectively in Africa, as well as nearly 20 ports and more than 80 large power plants. It has promoted the process of industrialization in Africa and enhanced Africa's ability for independent development.

Wang Yi said, in the field of people's livelihood, China has so far assisted in the construction of more than 130 medical facilities, 45 gymnasiums and more than 170 schools. In the past five years, China has trained more than 200000 talents of all kinds in Africa, who are distributed in various industries in Africa. China has made important contributions to promoting the vital interests and welfare of the African people.

Wang Yi said, in terms of trade and investment, the volume of trade between China and Africa exceeded 200 billion US dollars in 2019, and China has become Africa's largest trading partner for 11 years in a row. China's stock of indirect investment has reached US $110 billion, and more than 3700 Chinese enterprises have invested and started businesses in various parts of Africa, providing a strong driving force for sustained economic growth in Africa. Driven by China-Africa cooperation, other foreign countries have also increased their attention to Africa, bringing more opportunities for Africa's development.

Wang Yi said, over the past 20 years, China has consistently adhered to Africa-Africa cooperation, adhered to the correct concept of justice and benefit, and is committed to cooperation and common development. We have always insisted on non-interference in internal affairs, no political conditions, and never forcing others to do anything difficult, and we have always paid attention to listening to the voices of Africa, respected Africa's will, and been in line with Africa's needs. Chinese workers sweat, work hard and make progress with their African brothers. China's cooperation with Africa has gone deep into the grass-roots, rural areas and fields. Only in terms of medical teams, China has sent a total of 21000 doctors and nurses, and so far 220 million patients have been treated in African countries. These are what those countries that intend to discredit China-Africa cooperation cannot do at all and what they are unwilling to do. That is the fundamental reason why China-Africa cooperation is welcomed by African countries and appreciated by the African people.

Wang Yi said, according to the forum mechanism, a new session of the forum will be held in Africa next year. Together with Senegal, the co-chair of the Forum, China will conscientiously listen to the views and suggestions of all non-members of the Forum in line with the principle of "consultation, co-building and sharing", so as to further improve the forum and better benefit Africa and the world.