A view of an outdoor mine park in Fuxin, Northeast China's Liaoning province, on June 4, 2018. [Photo/Xinhua]

With the Beijing-Shenyang high-speed rail line set to open later this year, Fuxin in Liaoning province is expecting to attract more investment and tourists through the modern transportation infrastructure, its mining-themed tourism spots and hot springs.

The new railroad line will boost the economy and help carry out the development strategy of China's northeastern region, bringing investment to such areas of manufacturing, retail and e-commerce, as well as creating jobs in the service sector, said Zhang Chengzhong, the mayor of Fuxin.

The 698.29-kilometer-long railway is expected to become operational at the end of 2020, shortening the travel time to 2.5 hours. It runs by stops in Shunyi, Huairou and the Miyun districts in Beijing, Chengde city in Hebei province and Chaoyang, Fuxin, and Shenyang in Liaoning province, according to information released by China Railway Beijing Group Co Ltd.

The construction work on the route's final tunnel－the Lihuading tunnel in the Miyun district of Beijing－was completed in December last year.

Thanks to the upcoming interprovincial bullet train service and the city's efforts to upgrade its key sectors to keep pace with the ongoing supply-side structural reforms, Zhang said, Fuxin has gradually transformed itself into a mining-themed tourist spot.

Haizhou Coal Mine is near the city and opened in the 1940s. It was one of Asia's biggest open-cast mines by output. The mine closed in 2005 after running out of reserves, and has since been named as one of the 28 national mining parks by the central government.

It now features a viewing platform for visitors. The platform overlooks a crater that is 2.1 kilometers long, 4.3 kilometers wide and 350 meters deep. In addition, the local government has built a park with a railway museum, construction machinery exhibitions, hotels and restaurants.

Giant excavators with the eye-catching "CCCP" mark imported from the then Soviet Union in the 1950s and electric locomotives manufactured in the German Democratic Republic or East Germany in the 1960s can be seen at the complex.

Attracted by its historical background and terrain, martial arts star Jackie Chan and actress Li Bingbing visited Haizhou Coal Mine to shoot a number of war scenes for the movie The 1911 Revolution in 2010.

Eager to diversify its developing strength, Fuxin has invested 375 million yuan ($54 million) in tourist areas between 2015 and 2019. The areas tackle potential geological hazards such as the spontaneous combustion of residual coal, landslides, pollution and the task of protecting the area's industrial heritage.

"Fuxin's pillar industries are agriculture, tourism and hydraulic parts manufacturing. But it is still struggling to create enough jobs and boost local GDP," said Lu Shichang, a professor at the city's Liaoning Technical University.

Lu suggested the city should further involve itself in the development of the China (Liaoning) Pilot Free Trade Zone and enhance its ability in processing trade.

Established in 2017, the Liaoning FTZ consists of three parts－Dalian, Shenyang and Yingkou. They focus on port logistics and the financial business, equipment manufacturing, autos and parts, e-commerce and the information industry.