MACHULISHCHI, 5 February (BelTA) - Belarus has sent the second humanitarian cargo to China to prevent and control the epidemic caused by a new type of coronavirus. A military aircraft IL-76MD has departed from the Machulishchi airfield for Beijing, BelTA has learned.

Representatives of the Healthcare Ministry, the Emergencies Ministry, the Defense Ministry, the China-Belarus Industrial Park Great Stone came to the airfield. Chinese Ambassador to Belarus Cui Qiming also arrived in Machulishchi to thank the Belarusian side and personally the crew of the aircraft. “You have provided help to the Chinese people at the right time. Your support is very important to us at this difficult time," he said.

China Ambassador to Belarus Cui Qiming

Healthcare Minister Vladimir Karanik gives China Ambassador Cui Qiming a folder with a list of humanitarian aid items

The diplomat noted that Belarus was the first country to send aid to China to help fight coronavirus. This, he noted, is not the only case when Belarus has provided humanitarian support to China. “A friend in need is a friend indeed. Assistance and support of our peoples are mutual. I hope that this will become a good tradition," the ambassador added.

This time Belarus has sent mainly personal protective equipment, means for decontamination, disinfection of tools and premises, other medical products, all in all about 20 tonnes of cargo. the Great Stone has contributed one tonne of protective equipment (masks, respirators, robes).

“These are the most sought-after goods,” Healthcare Minister Vladimir Karanik said as he explained the items of the humanitarian cargo.

In his words, there are no plans to send Belarusian health workers to China in the near future. “The major goal is to provide consultative assistance and exchange information which is needed to ensure quality treatment and control over the virus spread. China is still working on accumulating the necessary information. As soon as they are ready to discuss it and share opinions, we will send a group there,” the minister said.

On 29 January, Belarus sent a humanitarian cargo (about 20 tonnes of medicines and medical products) to Beijing to help Chinese partners handle the epidemic. The cargo included gloves, surgical masks, disposable clothing.

Belarus President Aleksandr Lukashenko ordered to provide assistance to China to help fight the virus. The Belarus President Aleksandr Lukashenko sent a message of support to China's President Xi Jinping.

Talking to the media in Dobrush, Aleksandr Lukashenko said: Belarus is not going to terminate its relations with China. “But Chinese citizens and our people coming from China – we've informed the ambassador about it – will be examined in the airport and subjected to quarantine. We have enough specialists for that. And we've offered our aid to China. I didn't come up with the idea. Specialists led by the minister approached me and said: if Xi Jinping needs any assistance from us or our specialists, we are ready to go,” the head of state said.

According to the latest data, over 24,000 cases of the new virus has been so far confirmed. The death roll rose to 490 people. More than 170 cases of the virus have been confirmed outside China.