Representational image | Photo Credit: BCCL

New Delhi: China has gradually increased pressure in the Northeast, by strengthening its military units close to the Line of Actual Control. Additional forces joined the camps in late 2019.

Intelligence reports speak of an increase in Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) force-levels about 25-30 km from the border in the Phari Dzong area. This area, opposite the Sikkim-Bhutan sector, is about 50-60 km north of the strategic 'tri-junction', was strongly reinforced during the Doklam crisis two years ago. The Indian government worries about the tri-junction as only a narrow stretch of land links the Northeast from the rest of the Indian mainland.

The Chinese forces are in groups, north or north-west of the Phari Dzong area, with one deployment -- one of the two newer ones -- just to the south. They comprise vehicles, tents, shelters and some artillery pieces. High-level Army sources said this was not a threatening development.

The new Army groupings are just to the south and slightly to the north of Phari Dzong and were first noticed sometime during the middle of last year. They consist of sheds, vehicles and armaments.

The PLA had placed its soldiers in two camps, both to the north-west of Phari Dzong in September-October 2018. There were vehicles and a large number of objects covered by tarpaulins.

#Breaking | Intelligence report: China beefs-up military strength along LAC. Reinforcement near the strategic 'tri-junction' Phari Dzong border.



Indian Army sources: It is not a threat.



TIMES NOW's Srinjoy Chowdhury with #EXCLUSIVE details. pic.twitter.com/GrmyKdtrvT — TIMES NOW (@TimesNow) January 29, 2020

The other camp, nearly 10 km from Phari Dzong, came up even earlier in early 2018 and is further to the north-west. This camp, probably the largest, has grown in phases with additional vehicles coming in end 2018 and in the middle of last year. Even three-four months ago, there were additions to the camp's strength in terms of buildings and vehicles. There is some construction work going on now.

Altogether, it adds up to about a hundred vehicles and 70-80 tents, 20 artillery pieces and shelters, apart from camouflaged objects. The PLA camps, are in fact, closer to North Bhutan.

For long periods, China has strengthened its infrastructure, including roads and railway lines, in some cases quite close to the Indian border, the LAC. The PLA Air Force has increased its deployment in Tibetan airfields like Lhasa-Gongka, Hotan and Hoping. Even in winter months, the PLA Air Force has chosen to be deployed in Tibet, another example of its growing sophistication. The number of sorties recorded has increased over the years.