

"7 Local Wholesale Markets for Excavator Parts in China"

We will introduce the 7 best excavator parts wholesale market which leads the market in the number of categories of full-machine spare parts in China.

China is the largest source of supply of heavy equipment like excavators and also their replacement parts. It is becoming the world’s largest marketplace of heavy equipment parts supply. You could see thousands of foreign wholesalers, distributors or resellers of spare parts from the United States, Middle East, Africa, Asia, Europe, Japan at the machinery parts wholesale market every day.

Here I am going to introduce the list of best machinery parts wholesale market in China of the most popular cities like Guangzhou, Shanghai, Beijing and etc. You could get machinery parts like excavator spare parts and bulldozer parts for Caterpillar, Komatsu, Hitachi, Hyundai, Kobelco in the machinery parts centers.

Moreover, if you are unable to visit the local market of excavator parts, then we will introduce the 3 best online wholesale shops which lead the market in the number of categories of full-machine spare parts in this article.

Here we go...

List of 7 Local Wholesale Markets for Excavator Parts in China

Excavator parts wholesale market Location Category Customer reviews Guangzhou Zhuji Internation Machinery Parts City Guangzhou Excavator spare parts, machinery parts ★★★★★ Shanghai Cao'an Construction Machinery Parts Market Shanghai Excavator spare parts, heavy equipment parts ★★★★ Tianjin North China Construction Machinery Parts City Tianjin Excavator spare parts, machinery parts ★★★★ Jingkai Wanjia International Machinery Parts City Beijing Excavator spare parts, machinery parts ★★★★ Guizhou Construction Machinery Market Guizhou Excavator spare parts，machinery parts ★★★★ Urumqi Aletai Road Machinery Parts Urumqi Machinery parts, excavator spare parts ★★★ Fujian Quanzhou Auto Parts City Fujian Auto parts, excavator spare parts, machinery parts ★★★

Top 7 Excavator Parts Wholesale Market

Guangzhou zhuji Internation Machinery Parts City

Guangzhou zhuji Internation Machinery Parts City is the largest wholesale market at the lowest price of excavator spare parts or heavy equipment parts in China. It mainly includes excavator spare parts from body parts to undercarriage parts, with engine parts, hydraulic parts, electronic parts and etc. It provides a full range of excavator spare parts or other heavy equipment parts for most famous brands like Caterpillar, Komatsu, Hitachi, Hyundai, Kobelco and so on. It offers entire supply chain sales and is in partnership with more than 1000 suppliers.

What you could find from this market:

Full range of excavator spare parts

Cat parts, Komatsu parts, Hitachi parts, Hyundai parts, Kobelco parts and etc.

Excavator engine parts

Excavator body parts

Excavator undercarriage parts/Iron parts (sprockets, rollers, idler, bucket adapter, bolts, and nuts)

Breakers

Hydraulic system parts

Electronic parts

Cooling parts

Filters, rubber hoses, oil seal, hardware and etc.



Address: 18-C Kelin Road Tianhe District, Guangzhou, Guangdong Province, China

45 min from Baiyun Airport By Taxi

40 min from Canton Fair By Taxi

30 min from Xiaobei Road By Taxi

30 min from Dashadi By Taxi

Opening hours: 9:00-21:00 from Monday to Sunday

Tel: +86 138 2229 1454

Shanghai Cao'an Construction Machinery Parts Market

Shanghai Cao'an Construction Machinery Parts Market isn't just a single market. It is among the top wholesale market of construction machinery accessories or heavy equipment parts. It brings together more than 500 well-known domestic and foreign brands. After a 3-year development now it has opened a construction machinery market, imported machine tool market, domestic machine tool market and etc.

What you could find from this market:

Excavator spare parts

Machinery parts

Imported machine tool parts



Address: 2738 Caoan Road, Jiading District, Shanghai

Opening hours: 9:00-18:00 from Monday to Sunday

Tel/Whatsapp: +86 138 2229 1434

Tianjin North China Construction Machinery Parts City

Tianjin North China Construction Machinery City is a wholesale market for excavator parts in Tianjin. It is one of the largest wholesale markets for construction machinery parts or machinery parts. It has a wide range of spare parts makes it easier for you to buy.

What you could find from this market:

Excavator spare parts

Machinery parts



Address: 1415 Bridge，Zhongxing Road, Shanghai, China

Opening hours: 9:00-18:00 from Monday to Sunday

Beijing Jingkai Wanjia International Machinery Parts City

Jingkai Wanjia International Machinery City is Beijing's largest wholesale market for excavator parts. It is a large-scale machinery city that integrates multiple functions of trading, display, after-sale maintenance and spare parts sales, storage, and leasing of construction machinery and other machinery.

What you could find from this market:

Excavator spare parts

Machinery parts

Hardware and electrical parts



Address: 99 East Road, Xiaohongmen, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China

Opening hours: 9:00-18:00 from Monday to Sunday

Guizhou Construction Machinery Market

This market is also known as the "Guizhou Construction Machinery Market". It is the most complete wholesale market for excavator parts in Guizhou. It has a full range of accessories and a modern new market structure with convenient transportation. It integrates the development of electrical and mechanical markets and professional engineering machinery markets and the construction of supporting facilities.

What you could find from this market:

Excavator spare parts

Machinery parts

heavy equipment parts



Address: Tianli City, Gui'an Avenue, Huaxi District, Guiyang, Guizhou Province, China

Opening hours: 9:00-18:00 from Monday to Sunday

Urumqi Aletai Road Machinery Parts

Urumqi Altay Road Machinery Parts is a characteristic wholesale market. The shops here are mainly located on both sides of Atai Road. Its accessory brands are mainly foreign, you can find quality products with high wholesale prices here.

What you could find from this market:

Excavator spare parts

Machinery parts

Heavy equipment parts

Address: Altay Road, New District, Urumqi, Xinjiang, China

Opening hours: 9:00-18:00 from Monday to Sunday

Fujian Quanzhou Auto Parts City

In the Fujian wholesale market list, you will find Fujian Quanzhou Auto Parts City in the most crowded and largest wholesale market. It mainly sells auto parts and some excavator parts. If you want to buy both, here is one of the good options.

What you could find from this market:

Excavator spare parts

Machinery parts

Auto parts

Address: Jiangnan Street, Licheng District, Quanzhou City, Fujian Province, China

Opening hours: 9:00-18:00 from Monday to Sunday

Why Not Buy Online Wholesale Items

If you are unable to visit the local offline market of excavator spare parts. Why not buy your spare parts online. You will find that the benefits of online purchases are double compared to offline purchases.

Online purchase saves you a lot of time to buy spare parts from visiting shops to shop and floor to floor and most importantly from one country to another country.

Buying bulk spare parts through online wholesaler give you the advantage of saving money.

You can easily contact your wholesaler via the internet whenever you have any technical problems regarding spare parts purchased.



Top 3 Online Wholesale of Excavator Spare Parts in China

1) www.lmjx.net

lmjx.net comes the top of the list in China’s largest wholesale market of among those excavator spare parts online stores. It is a great online shop to visit and its spare parts are at affordable prices.

Business Scope

Wholesale of excavator spare parts

Used excavator trading

Excavator rental

Excavator maintenance



2) www.ylfpart.com

ylfpart.comis an online shop with a huge variety in its every category. It is one of the earliest online wholesale websites in China, founded in 2000.

Business Scope

Excavator undercarriage parts

Hydraulic hammers parts



3) www.excavator-part.com

excavator-part.com is an international e-commerce service platform to provide a full range of excavator parts, focusing on B2B2C.

It's in partnership with 312 suppliers, offering entire supply chain sales.

excavator-part.com brings great convenience for those who are looking for a different type of excavator spare parts.

The various choices of spare parts for their excavator that make excavator-part.com most preferable over other wholesale companies.

Wide Range of Products

You could find 14 categories and 128 subcategories in that shop. There are around 20 thousand SKUs online, accounting for 65% of the entire excavator wear parts. It mainly includes excavator spare parts from body parts to undercarriage parts, with engine parts, hydraulic parts, electronic parts and etc for most famous brands like Caterpillar, Komatsu, Hitachi, Hyundai, Kobelco and so on.

Cheap Price

Each product offered by excavator-part.com is sold at a wholesale price to maximize your profits. It covers fourteen categories of products at very affordable wholesale prices, 1/3 lower than the price of original parts. It offers professional online customer service, if you are interested in their products, you could contact: tel/whatsapp/wechat: +86 138 2229 1454

Quality Assurance

Alibaba is just a third-party platform for hundreds of thousands of manufacturers and suppliers, that may have poor quality problems. Unlike Alibaba, excavator-part.com goes for quality inspection for each and every product in the whole bulk. It can help the purchaser get the best quality.

Large Stock

You can always rely on excavator-part.com. It always has a large stock available with more than a hundred thousand SKUs. If you want to check if the goods you need are in stock, you could contact: tel/whatsapp/wechat: +86 138 2229 1425

MOQ 1

It offers small MOQ 1 at factory price

Fast Delivery

If you want your order to be delivered within minimum time. Due to its large inventory, you could get the fastest 3-day delivery time service after payment is complete.

Geographical Advantage

It is located in Guangzhou where people from all over the world could fly directly to visit. Once the deal is made, it could be shipped to global distributors in the most economical way by the fastest logistics in Guangzhou

24/7 Real-Time Chat

excavator-part.com offers online assistance. If you have any technical problems, you could chat with its team online at any time. They will help you resolve the problems with their professional knowledge.

The place of origin

China is the place of origin of raw materials for excavator parts due to the development in the mining area, it has a great advantage in price. The cost is a lot cheaper than parts from abroad.

If you want to purchase the excavator spare parts from excavator-part.com, click here

Conclusion

China is the world’s largest market place excavator spare parts. From body parts to undercarriage parts, you could find every single part from brand to brand in the diverse zones of China wholesale markets.

More and more excavators are widely used, so the supply for excavator parts is also increasing. With this development trend, you have a lot of options for excavator parts purchase to choose from. But when it comes to benefits, a good online wholesale excavator store may be your best choice.

If you like the post, please share it with your friends.

Media Contact

Company Name: Yangu

Contact Person: Nina

Email: Send Email

Phone: +86 138 2229 1425

Address:Tianhe District, Kelin Road 18C

City: Guangzhou

State: Guangdong

Country: China

Website: excavator-part.com







