These meals are a favorite among busy humans like you, and for good reason.

If only the food could just cook itself ...

You might have found yourself pondering this one night, after a particularly stressful, long day at the office. Because the last thing you want to be doing when you return home from that kind of a work day is more work.

Indeed, cooking can be hard. It can steal precious hours you'd rather be spending with family, friends or simply recuperating from the hustle-bustle. And – ugh – the cleanup.

For nights like these, we have a solution: Cook it all in one pot. If the minimal cleanup doesn't win you over, the time-saving certainly will. For our part, please use the seven recipes we've curated from our Israeli Kitchen below to get you started.

One-pot butternut squash and chickpea stew

This vegetarian stew incorporates simple ingredients for power-packed flavor. (Photo: Jerry James Stone)

Sure, when we think "stew," many of us think it should be preceded by "beef." But this stew is as hearty as stews get without using meat. Chickpeas are the key here – and what do you know, they've found the perfect pair in this slightly sweet, satisfyingly smooth butternut squash. Click here for our recipe.

One-pot za'atar roasted chicken over sumac potatoes

Throw this in the oven during cocktail hour, then pull it out for oohs and aahs. (Photo: Dan Perez)

For something that takes 10 minutes to throw together, this roasted chicken recipe is a masterpiece. Author Adeena Sussman, who created this recipe for her award-winning cookbook "Sababa," suggests resting the bird right on top of the potatoes, so the za’atar-scented drippings coat the tangy, sumac-coated potatoes while they cook in unison. Click for our recipe.



One-pot beef with broccoli and snow peas

Chinese takeout? Try Chinese stay-in. (Photo: Sarah F. Berkowitz)

If you're accustomed to enjoying your local Chinese restaurant’s signature beef and broccoli dish, but you think it's one of those dishes you just can’t reproduce at home – think again. Aside from the ease of cooking it all in one vessel, you also have the benefit of tailoring different ingredients to your taste, and enjoying the dish hot off the stove. Not to mention the cost factor – making these types of dishes at home runs you about a third or less of the cost of buying ready-made. Click for our recipe.

One-pot 5-ingredient easy shakshouka

Shakshouka is a popular breakfast dish in Israel. (Photo: Miriam Kresh)

It's said that shakshouka, together with falafel and shawarma, forms a trifecta of sorts of traditional Israeli fare. Shakshouka (also sometimes spelled "shakshuka") can be dressed up according to personal taste, with ingredients like Manchego cheese, diced cream cheese, chives, onions, mushrooms, peppers and roasted eggplant.

If you're like most of us, you might not have all of those ingredients on hand. But you do have eggs, cheese and tomato sauce, right?

Get that cast-iron skillet ready, and whip up this simple shakshouka hack. Click for our recipe.

One-pot overnight beef stew

Overnight beef stew (Photo: Fanfo/Shutterstock)

This dish can be assembled in minutes and has almost everything you need in it: protein, starch, "good" fat. For this stew, be sure to add plenty of spices and some olive oil. Sweet potatoes make a foil to the sharp spices and combine deliciously with the wine that makes up the liquid. Click for our recipe.

One-pot chicken and dumplings

Hearty chicken and dumplings will please any crowd and fulfill any appetite. (Photo: eurobanks/Shutterstock)

Trends may come and go, but as long as there's cold weather and hungry people, comfort food will never go out of style. This chicken and dumplings recipe combines all the things you love about comfort food in one (large) pot, yours for the filling. Insider hint: Don't sweat the shape or size of the dumplings; just pull and plop. Click for our recipe.

One-pot teriyaki veggies with buckwheat

Buckwheat is a classic, earthy grain that pairs perfectly with vegetables. (Photo: Sarah F. Berkowitz)

To the millennial palate, ancient grains have become very trendy in recent years, and for good reason. They’re full of nutrients, delicious, and add substance. Combine it with recipes like this one, and the result is a win-win: all of the flavor, none of the fuss. Click for our recipe.

