Himalayan food is more than just pink sea salt. It’s a cuisine all its own, a dynamic blend of Chinese and Indian flavors touting its own list of craveable dishes — and the proof is right here in New Jersey, no mountain climbing required.

Instead, I braved the New Jersey Turnpike (through a light snowfall, in my defense) all the way down to Mount Masala in Voorhees. It’s a modest storefront in an unassuming South Jersey strip mall, housing a restaurant whose food hails from the Himalayan Mountains in Nepal — a narrow band of country wedged between China’s Tibetan region and India’s northern border. The nation’s location, between two of the most distinct and populous cultures on Earth, inarguably reflects upon the food.

The restaurant opened in 2017, just three years after Gayatri Giri and her husband, Bharat Bist, came to America from Nepal. The Camden County suburb caught their eye as a place far removed from the bustle they experienced living in Queens while Bist studied at the Culinary Institute of America.

“We said, ‘let’s just go somewhere where there’s peace,’" Giri says. "Where they know about food but don’t know about Himalayan food.”

The beauty of Himalayan food is its juxtaposition of the cooking styles that surround the region. Think of a spicy curry that’s more herbal than creamy, or fried rice that tastes like if your local Chinese takeout started making biryani (an Indian curried rice dish), featuring chicken, beef, shrimp or fish. Curried noodle dishes. Steamed dumplings called “momos” topped with tomato chutney.

Want more food and restaurant news? Enter your email address to be the first to know:

Restaurants merging separate cuisines are in vogue all over the United States — sushi burritos are all the rage, and you can find just about anything in a taco these days — but this style of food is nothing new in Himalayan culture.

“(It’s) not typical Indian, not typical Chinese,” Giri said. “What we end up with is a fusion, with Himalayan herbs and Himalayan spices.”

All of Mount Masala’s spices are imported from Nepal — Nepalese Sichuan pepper, ginger, cilantro, garlic, cardamom and cinnamon are all prevalent, creating a range of potent herbal flavors that adventurous foodies will appreciate. It may not be the favorite of those who are less bold, but the ability to dictate your spice level remedies this.

Nepalese art adorns the walls of the small dining room, paintings of the mountains from which the food hails. After telling the waiter I was looking for the most authentic Himalayan experience possible, he had some recommendations to make sure I got every essential flavor. He also asked which spice level I preferred, which should put anyone with a sensitive palate at ease. I ordered everything at a “three out of five” on the heat scale, which packed some heat but didn’t ruin my day by any means. As a spicy food fan, I would probably go for a four next time.

Chicken lollipops from Mount Masala in Voorhees. (Jeremy Schneider | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com)

The chicken lollipops were dark meat chicken wings in the shape of drumsticks, with a delectable spicy dipping sauce that was similar to a remoulade. Don’t be scared by the dark meat. It’s tender, juicy and flavorful.

The chicken momos followed. After ordering them simply steamed, my waiter insisted I get them “sizzling.” Their presentation was similar to a plate of fajitas at a Mexican restaurant, steaming and indeed audibly hissing in tomato chutney. My patience was tested as I waited for them to cool, lest I burn my tongue, but the dish was a sight to behold. Once I dug in, I was blown away the sweet and spicy tang of the sauce atop the soft steamed dumplings. Knowing there was more food coming, I did my best not to devour the whole plate.

Goldenya fried frice from Mount Masala in Voorhees. (Jeremy Schneider | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com)

The goldenya fried rice, another dish my waiter suggested, was reminiscent of Indian biryani but with the Nepalese Sichuan pepper giving it a distinct spice. My mouth tingled, in a good way. I topped it with the Chicken Manchurian, which reminded me of classic chicken in garlic sauce, but with more kick.

Chicken Manchurian over Goldenya rice at Mount Masala in Voorhees. (Jeremy Schneider | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com)

The menu at Mount Masala can be intimidating, with dozens of unfamiliar appetizers, soups, curries, rices, noodles — countless mysterious variations to chose from. But Giri and Bist opened Mount Masala in hopes of educating New Jersey on their culture, and the wait staff’s patience with my questions was welcome.

If you didn’t believe Indian and Chinese food could come together harmoniously, allow this spot to convince you.

“Don’t be scared to be on an adventure in the spicy world,” Giri says.

Jeremy Schneider may be reached at jschneider@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @J_Schneider. Find NJ.com on Facebook.

Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips.

Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.