Tourism advocates eye more foreign visitors

John Hopkins, chairman of the Great Rivers and Routes Tourism Bureau board, speaks during the bureau’s annual “Tourism Summit,” held Thursday at SIUE. Tourism in the region accounts for almost $700 million in economic impact, and almost 5,100 jobs. less John Hopkins, chairman of the Great Rivers and Routes Tourism Bureau board, speaks during the bureau’s annual “Tourism Summit,” held Thursday at SIUE. Tourism in the region accounts for almost $700 ... more Image 1 of / 4 Caption Close Tourism advocates eye more foreign visitors 1 / 4 Back to Gallery

EDWARDSVILLE — Tourism accounts for almost $700 million in economic impact and more than 5,000 jobs in the six-county area served by the Great Rivers and Routes Tourism Bureau, according to information presented at the group’s annual “Tourism Summit”.

The event, held Thursday at Southern Illinois University Edwardsville, brought together people from both government and the tourism industry. John Hopkins, chairman of the tourism bureau’s board, started the event by asking a simple question: “What time is it?”

He then answered.

“It’s time to stop thinking about promoting just one city at a time,” he said. “It’s time to start thinking about promoting a region.

”It’s time to start looking for visitors who don’t just come from Minnesota or Missouri,” he said. “It’s time to start looking for visitors who come to the area from Japan and the British Isles.

“The world is smaller and we’re a big part of it,” he said. “If you had gone to someone and said five years ago that there would be tourism groups coming to Madison County from Japan, from Germany, from the British Isles, they would think you were out of your mind.”

Now, Hopkins said, it’s a “common occurrence.”

The total economic impact of tourism on the region last year is estimated at $695.5 million, a 4.3 percent increase from the previous year. That also accounted for 5,050 jobs.

Brett Stawar, president and CEO of the tourism bureau, said he expected that success to continue and a number of positive things are happening.

Alton is becoming more of a destination and hub for riverboat cruises. Both American Cruise Lines and American Queen Steam Boat Co. are adding stops in Alton.

“The interest in the Mississippi River is exploding,” he said, noting that during his recent trip to China people were “very interested in it.”

Part of the emphasis on Alton is that offers an alternative the more industrialized St. Louis, he said.

“It’s the prettiest section of the river, where it opens up wide and we have the Clark Bridge,” he said. “It’s a natural port.”

Stawar said there are a number of bookings already scheduled through 2022, and the bureau is developing a “Special VIP Tour” exclusively for the American Queen Steam Boat Co.

He also said there is expected to be a lot of interest from international travelers. Most of the area’s foreign visitors come from the United Kingdom, China, Germany, Japan, Mexico and Canada.

Stawar said his recent trip to China was very educational.

“Before I went to China I had no idea,” he said. “You hear the numbers but you don’t see it.

”They’re all maturing, and the middle class is growing,” Stawar said. “They’re looking to see the rest of the world.

“Looking at the economics of it, they are a powerhouse of money and expendable income,” Stawar said. “And they are traveling.”

Although coming to America is a “long-haul destination,” Stawar said there is a lot here to attract visitors.

Route 66 is a major draw, especially for German and UK tourists. Stawar said Route 66 is the No. 1 itinerary request for visitors from the UK.

“We’ve heard examples of someone buying a car (at one end of Route 66) and selling it at the end,” he said.

Another factor is green space, especially in urban areas.

“I remember when we had a China tour here and they were rolling in a patch of clover by the Wadlow statute,” he said.

Mitch Bair, Collinsville City Manager and a tourism bureau board member, believes there needs to be a push for the bureau to represent all of Madison County. The bureau now includes the northern half of the county.

ILLINOISouth, another regional tourism bureau, covers 22 counties from the Mississippi to the Wabash rivers, including the Granite City and Highland areas. Each agency receives equal financial support from the county.

While the tax revenues — totaling about $5,400 and split evenly between the two groups — is not a large amount there are grants and advertising revenues that would be affected.

For seveeral years the Great Rivers and Routes Tourism Bureau has tried to become the sole bureau in Madison County, and the issue is expected to come up again at some time.

Reach reporter Scott Cousins at 618-208-6447.