Daniel Toroitich arap Moi, Kenya's second president who governed from 1978 to 2002, died peacefully on Jan 4 at the Nairobi Hospital in the country's capital at the age of 95.

Uhuru Kenyatta, Kenya's current president made the announcement early Tuesday through a presidential proclamation.

"It is with profound sadness and sorrow that I announce the passing of a great African statesman, His Excellency Daniel Toroitich arap Moi, the Second President of the Republic of Kenya, " Uhuru said. "Our nation and continent were immensely blessed by the dedication and service of the late Moi who spent almost his entire adult life serving Kenya and Africa in a number of capacities."

While addressing the press at Nairobi Hospital on Tuesday morning Gideon Moi, the president's son and a senator in the current house of parliament, expressed his family's gratitude to Kenyans for the prayers they have been making for the former president.

"The former president passed away peacefully and as a family we have accepted what has happened," Gideon Moi said. "Let me take this opportunity to give our family's heartfelt gratitude to all Kenyans and the rest of the world for the prayers, thoughts and support they have given to us."

Moi became the president after the death of Jomo Kenyatta, Kenya's founding father. A former schoolteacher and later a national legislator, Moi later rose to the position of vice president under Kenyatta before succeeding him as president.

Wu Peng, China's ambassador to Kenya joined the rest of the world in expressing his country's condolences on the passing of the statesman.

"I am saddened to learn of the passing of former President Daniel arap Moi," Wu said through his twitter account. "He was a good friend of China who has contributed a lot to the development of China-Kenya relationship. My deepest condolences go to his family, and the people of Kenya."

Moi is among a number of African politicians who were loved and hated in equal measures. Despite his rule being characterized by economic strife and political upheavals, Moi is credited with maintaining peace and stability in Kenya throughout the time he was in power.

Through the presidential proclamation, Uhuru Kenyatta has ordered flags to be flown at half-mast at all public buildings and military bases until the day of the former president's burial.

"In testimony of the respect in which the memory of the late Daniel Toroitich arap Moi is held, the nation will observe a period of national mourning from today until the day of his funeral," Uhuru said.

Otiato Opali in Nairobi, Kenya contributed to this story.