PGIM, the global asset management business of Prudential Financial, Inc has appointed Head of its Institutional Relationship Group for China while India-based impact investor Omnivore has named Reihem Roy and Subhadeep Sanyal as partners.

PGIM ropes in Sun Hao to lead China institutional relationships

PGIM, the global asset management business of Prudential Financial, Inc, has named Sun Hao as head of its Institutional Relationship Group for China, according to an announcement.

In this role, Hao will focus on building brand recognition and deepening relationships with chief investment officers, C-suite executives and other top decision-makers in the leading Chinese banks, pension plans and insurance companies.

He will also liaise with local regulators and help PGIM to deepen its long-term relationships with Chinese institutional investors.

Based in Shanghai, he will report to Philip Hsin, head of PGIM’s Institutional Relationship Group in Asia Pacific, ex-Japan.

Hao was most recently general manager for Legg Mason’s Shanghai operations. He has previously held institutional client coverage and business development roles at AllianceBernstein, Amundi, PIMCO and ING Bank.

Impact investor Omnivore names two new partners

India-based impact investor Omnivore has named Reihem Roy and Subhadeep Sanyal as partners, according to a statement.

Both Roy and Sanyal were principals at Omnivore. In the new role, they will drive new investments and support the growth of portfolio companies.

While Roy manages Omnivore’s Chennai office and serves as the fund’s ESG and business integrity Officer, Sanyal will run the Delhi office.

Before joining Omnivore in 2013, Roy co-founded Villgro’s healthcare-enterprise incubation vertical; and worked towards building a portfolio of social enterprises across agriculture, clean-tech, and healthcare.

Meanwhile, Sanyal, who joined the impact fund in 2011, was a campus hire from IIM Ahmedabad. At Omnivore, he drove institutional relationships with academia, government, trade associations, incubators and accelerators.

Founded in 2010 by Mark Kahn and Jinesh Shah, Omnivore is a venture capital firm investing in startups that are developing breakthrough technologies for food and agriculture.

Last April, the venture capital firm hit the final close of its second fund at $97 million (Rs 679 crore), surpassing the initial target of $75 million.