The premiere ceremony. (Photo/People's Daily Online)

San Francisco, Jan. 20 (People’s Daily Online) --—The People's Daily Online West USA held the premiere of a short documentary series on the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and the United States, and launched the "Reading China from Multiple Cities and One Book" event at the San Francisco Public library in the US on Jan. 18, 2020.

The documentary series took six months to shoot and involved travelling over more than 9,900 miles from the East to the West Coast of the United States. The 10 interviewees are witnesses to, and builders of, China-US relations over the past 40 years.

The interviewees include Christopher Nixon Cox, an American lawyer based in New York, who is the son of Tricia Nixon Cox and Edward F. Cox and grandson of President Richard Nixon and First Lady Pat Nixon; Neil Mallon Bush, who is the fourth of six children of former President George H. W. Bush and brother of George W. Bush, the 43rd President of the United States; Stephen A. Orlins, President of the National Committee on United States-China Relations since 2005; and Charles Thomas Fingar, a professor at Stanford University.

Wang Donghua, Consul General of the People’s Republic of China to San Francisco, who attended the premiere, said, "It is very meaningful for us to hold an event like this, which will help us review the development of China-US relations, summarize the experience and lessons of China-US cooperation, and think about ways for the two major countries to live in peace and resolve their differences."

He said the event was a good entry point and focused on how to read China. At present, China-U.S. relations are facing unprecedented difficulties, and one important reason is the lack of mutual understanding. "There are far more Chinese who know America than Americans who know China. It shows how important it is to have events like today."

Florence Fang, a Chinese-American businesswoman and publisher who was also one of the subjects of the documentary, expressed congratulations for the success of the short documentary series at the premiere, and hopes the two countries can make more contributions to China-US relations in the future.

Michael Lambert, the City Librarian at San Francisco Public Library, said at the premiere that, as one of the subjects of the documentary, "Vision and a conviction will take China-US relations forward," adding that he believed that vision and conviction will promote understanding and goodwill between our peoples. "Culture is the best way for human beings to understand and communicate," said Lambert.

The head of People's Daily Online West USA, Deng Wei, said that through real records and reflections on history, mutual trust can be enhanced, and exchanges between the two countries will be expanded.

“After watching this documentary, I believe you will come to the same conclusion as me: the future of China-US relations is still bright,” Wang Donghua said.

At the end of the ceremony, People's Daily Online West USA donated a batch of English books on Chinese traditional culture to the San Francisco Library.