AUSTIN — Sure, Matt Altschul was happy that The Wirecutter had named his company’s new smartphone case the best wallet replacement model back in 2015, but he wasn’t satisfied. A case from a competitor had won the coveted “Best iPhone Case for Most People” designation, but Altschul wasn’t impressed with the pick.

“I knew we could do better,” he said.

His company, which at the time was called Silk, designed and manufactured a case it dubbed the Base Grip with the “specific intention” of taking away the crown. And Silk succeeded. Starting with the iPhone 7, the case — since renamed the Kung Fu Grip — has won the Wirecutter’s top iPhone case recommendation.

Silk is now known as Smartish and has 13 employees that work in its offices in a trendy block just east of I-35 near downtown Austin. They’re tiny, a little chaotic, with the definite feel of a startup — even though the company has been around under three different names for 10 years.

REVIEW: Cameras are the reason to buy the iPhone 11 Pro Max

Unlike a lot of other case makers, you can only buy its wares online, and the only real marketing it has done up to now has been chasing good reviews in online tech publications. In fact, Smartish didn’t even have a marketing manager until last September.

The smartphone case business is a crowded one, which analysts say has three tiers, based on market reach. There’s the top echelon, with recognizable names: Apple, Incipio, Speck, Otterbox, Tech21 and more. Smartish falls in a middle tier, along with Caseology, Spigen and Amazon’s own cases, among others.

Then there’s the bottom bunch, which is full of companies that buy generic cases from Asia and slap their brands on them, Altschul said.

Minding the details

Nick Guy, who writes Wirecutters’ smartphone case reviews and who has kept Smartish’s product at the top of the list, called the Kung Fu Grip “a super simple case with small details that are executed well.”

“Cases are a very personal thing,” he said, adding they’ve essentially become “fashion accessories.”

“The Kung Fu Grip is a good, protective case that doesn’t cost a ton, with slim, grippy edges. You’re not as likely to drop it,” Guy said.

JUST IN CASE: iPhone case roundup from Dr. Mac

Still, Guy said he was skeptical when Altschul first submitted the case and said it was designed to win the top recommendation.

“I thought he was just blowing smoke a little bit,” he said. But sure enough, the case made the cut.

Altschul got his start in consumer electronics in Los Angeles as vice president of operations for V-Moda, a Japanese headphone maker. He started what became Smartish by designing protective cases for Nintendo Wii controllers, then pivoted the business to smartphone cases.

The Smartish name evolved as the company sought a distinct identity. Originally called CM4, it moved to the Silk brand as its Wallet Slayer case — the product that won the first Wirecutter recommendation — and then Smartish. Altschul said the name is meant to be playful, as well as show some humility.

“We didn’t want to (call the company) ‘Smart,’ that sounds like, you know, a smart refrigerator or something,” he said. “We’re Smart-ish — just a little smart.”

He has never taken any investment money - the company was bootstrapped with his own cash and loans from friends and family, he said.

The company’s marketing is infused with a sense of place; it’s not hesitant to flaunt its Austin roots. For example, the name “Kung Fu Grip” comes from a famous piece of graffiti adorning a railroad bridge over Lady Bird Lake in Austin that reads “I’ve got Ninja Style Kung Fu Grip” (which is a reference to a feature on a 1970s GI Joe doll). It’s similar to Houston’s “Be Someone” landmark over Interstate 45 near downtown.

Apple focus

The bulk of Smartish’s line, which now includes many different styles of cases, is designed for iPhones. (They also make cases for Samsung’s Galaxy S phones.) As a result, much of the company’s business comes once Apple has launched its latest models in the fall, continuing through the end of the year. Because of that, it’s important for Smartish to have cases ready to go once Apple has unveiled its lineup, typically in mid-September.

But design and preparation begins well before that, Altschul said, because there must be enough stock in place to satisfy the huge demand that comes as early adopters — who usually buy their cases online — place orders.

“We rely on the leaks from component suppliers of new iPhones and start designing once those seem solid,” he said. It’s a risky game, because if the slightest thing is wrong — “if a button is a millimeter off” — then Smartish has to trash its stock and start over.

Release Notes: Get Dwight Silverman’s weekly tech newsletter in your inbox each Monday

“That has never happened,” Altschul said. “At this point, our sources are pretty good.”

Designs are finalized in June, production begins in Chinese facilities in July and stock is available in August. A lone employee in China acts as liaison between Smartish in Austin and the factories.

Smartish is growing both by adding new categories of products — wireless charging pads and stands are coming soon — and by offering personalization on its existing lines. You can add images on the back of most of Smartish’s cases, using either ones offered by the company or uploading your own.

In one of Smartish’s offices are two big custom printers that can apply a different image to dozens of cases at a time. The machines allow Smartish to turn around a custom case in a fraction of the time and at a lower cost than competitors, Altschul said.

Mark Vena, a senior analyst with Austin-based Moor Insight & Strategy, said Smartish is smart to move into personalization.

“That whole category is really big business,” Vena said, giving companies that do it a way to differentiate themselves. “The case business is a very low-margin business. They need to do what they can to stand out.”

(A version of this story originally ran in Dwight Silverman’s weekly Release Notes newsletter. Sign up to receive it at houstonchronicle.com/releasenotes.)

dwight.silverman@chron.com

twitter.com/dsilverman

houstonchronicle.com/techburger