Welcome to the Year of the Metal Rat

In Western culture, the lowly rat couldn’t have worse public relations. But in the Chinese zodiac, the rat has some star power: It represents wit, energy and a gift for getting things it wants.

It’s also the first of the 12 animal signs of the Chinese zodiac, so the Lunar New Year (Tet in Vietnamese) that begins on Saturday will be a true fresh start.

But because the zodiac also cycles through five inanimate elements — wood, fire, earth, metal, water — 2020 will specifically be the Year of the Metal Rat.

“The Rat Year tells you to develop your abilities, to be ingenious, to think outside the box,” says Nan Hall Linke, possibly Houston’s only astrologer/therapist/landscaper. The metal element, she says, signals renewed ambition and a desire to fulfill unmet needs. “Don’t look back, but look for financial opportunities.”

Now Playing:

Those born in a Rat year are close with their friends and seem confident. But they are anxious inside, and the dark side of that can be very dark, Linke says. “The poisoned rat doesn’t stop moving.”

More on Lunar New Year The Lunar New Year is celebrated across wide swaths of Asia, with customs and lengths of the holiday varying from region to region, and in the Chinese diaspora worldwide. It is a movable feast, its date falling at the second new moon after the winter solstice. In China this year, the 40-day period called Chinyun began Jan. 10. Because family reunions are key to the commemoration, the New Year, or Spring Festival, marks the largest annual human migration on the planet, according to CNN. According to one legend, thousands of years ago the Jade Emperor told the animals that he would determine the order of the zodiac by the order in which the animals arrived to his party. Rat hitched a ride on the back of Ox. But when they arrived at the palace, Rat hopped off Ox so he could be first. Festivities The Chinese Community Center Houston, 9800 Town Park Drive, will host a free celebration 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Saturday. ccchouston.org The Asia Society Texas Center, 1370 Southmore, will host two weekends of performances and events starting 11 a.m.-4 p.m. Saturday. Free festivities include lion dances, story time, dance performances and other family-friendly activities. asiasociety.org/texas The Asia Society Texas Center and Simon Malls are hosting Lunar New Year activities at The Galleria noon-5 p.m. Saturday, Sunday and Feb. 1 and 2.

Read More

On ReNewHouston.com: Houston’s ‘fitness czar’ offers tips for sticking to healthy resolutions

A Rat Year doesn’t encourage high-mindedness in anyone. “Don’t worry about other people,” Linke says. “Take care of yourself.”

Kathryn Weber practices classical Chinese feng shui in Victoria, where she runs the Red Lotus Letter feng shui e-zine.

“The whole idea of feng shui is that the way your home and office are arranged affects your health, wealth and relationships,” she says.

Because the 2020 New Year is a zodiacal new beginning, the tradition of doing a deep house-cleaning in preparation for the holiday is even more important than in average years, she says. (But do not sweep on New Year’s Day, for risk of sweeping your luck out the door.) Repairing broken items around the home takes priority, too, as it also affects future success. “Broken equals broke,” Weber says.

Fill your house with plant life — flower arrangements, orange trees, lime trees or pussywillow, for example, to increase your prospects for abundance and good fortune.

Both Linke and Weber look beyond the holiday itself to the year to come.

Linke, who says that the aspects of this year align with what she sees in Western astrology, notes that owing to the 60-year Chinese great cycle, the last Metal Rat year was 1960. Think of John F. Kennedy’s stirring inauguration and the tumultuous decade that followed.

“The young are collectivizing,” she says. “Rat is out for itself, but it wants to be part of a collective conscious.”

Weber sees a rise in precious metals, advances in electronics and growth in high tech. On the negative side, she warns of electronic tampering and hacked voting machines. “One thing I believe in is an increased need for digital security, such as passwords, and increased need for coverage for identity theft.”

In other words, maybe this is the year you finally learn to code.

It’s also important to be alert for family rifts. “Metal has a cutting edge,” she says, “and there is no sharper knife in the drawer than the tongue.”

That cutting energy may mean excising whatever no longer works for you, from dealing with addictions to literal cutting, such as going in for small surgeries.

But also on the personal side, Weber says, it’s a decent year for affairs of the heart, and now’s the time for a romantic getaway. Phew!

Babies born this year will be born sensitive and thinking, with quick minds, and need a nice, soothing environment, Weber says. Growing up, they will be highly motivated but also quite materialistic, always pushing toward security.

If this coming year sounds difficult, Linke says you’ve got this. “The talents you’ve learned in the last two or three years will be what you have achievements in.”

Weber’s advice is similar. “We all have things we have to manage in our lives, the bumps in the road. Work with the energy of the year: smaller and smoother.”

Kyrie O’Connor is a freelance writer and a former editor at the Houston Chronicle.