CSSC Carnival Cruise Shipping has received the delivery of the cruise ship Costa Atlantica from Carnival Cruise subsidiary Costa Cruise.

Established in 2018, CSSC Carnival Cruise Shipping is a joint venture (JV) between Carnival and China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC).

As part of the partnership, the JV will receive two Costa cruise ships, Costa Atlantica and Costa Mediterranea, which will be transferred at a later date.

The 85,861t Costa Atlantica can accommodate 2,210 passengers. Costa Mediterranea can carry 2,114 passengers.

The JV will also receive two new vessels with an option to order four additional cruise ships that will be constructed in China.



The two new cruise ships will be built by Shanghai-based Shanghai Waigaoqiao Shipbuilding Co (SWS). The first ship will be delivered in 2023.

In 2014, the companies signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to form the JV.

Is the shipping industry doing enough to reduce its carbon footprint? Yes, it is doing enough

Unsure

No, it is not doing enough View Results

Loading ... Loading ...

CSSC-Carnival managing director Roger Chen said: “We will leverage the strong capabilities and rich resources of our parent companies to build a full-fledged flagship cruise company.”

CSSC-Carnival chairman Yang Guobing added: “The venture should help drive the sustained development of China’s cruise industry and become a leading China-funded cruise company by optimising its product offerings, improving its distribution systems and setting up an all-inclusive ecosystem.”

Last week, Carnival announced plans to launch four new cruise ships in 2020.

The four new vessels are Iona for P&O Cruises UK, Enchanted Princess for Princess Cruises, Mardi Gras for Carnival Cruise Line and Costa Firenze for Costa Cruises.

In November 2019, China completed the merger of CSSC and China Shipbuilding Industry Company (CSIC) to create a new shipbuilding company.

The new entity will retain the brand name of China State Shipbuilding Corporation Ltd.