It has started raining smartphones in India and Xiaomi is among the top phone makers to start coming up with new phones. The Redmi 8A Dual was the first launch for the Redmi sub-brand and the next one will be happening soon. While the name and details of the next Redmi phones are still behind the curtains, Xiaomi VP Manu Jain announced that Xiaomi is joining hands with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) to use its NavIC satellite navigation system.

Xiaomi has confirmed that its next smartphone under the Redmi sub-brand will support the Indian NavIC satellite navigation system out of the box. NavIC has been developed by ISRO and is an alternative to the American GPS system and China's GLONASS system. The system can be used to access location data in map-based apps like Google Maps. Xiaomi hasn't mentioned the name of the phone yet but it has confirmed that next phone coming out of Redmi's factory is going to use this technology.

While this sounds exciting, you should know that the support for ISRO's NavIC system has been included in the new range of Qualcomm chipsets for affordable phones this year. Last month, Qualcomm revealed the Snapdragon 720G, Snapdragon 662 and Snapdragon 460 chips with support for NavIC, Bluetooth 5.1 and Wi-Fi 6. Xiaomi itself announced that it will be launching phones soon that uses these new chipsets.

Given that March is approaching soon, Xiaomi might be preparing to launch the next version of the Redmi Note series. Chances are that the Redmi Note 9 and Redmi Note 9 Pro might launch soon, and both these phones are going to get support for the new NavIC navigation system. The Redmi Note 9 Pro could use the Snapdragon 720G chipset whereas the regular Redmi Note 9 may rely on the Snapdragon 662.

Chances are that India could get to see the new Redmi Note 9 series before China and other global markets. Not much is known about these phones as of now, apart from our guess of this phone supporting the new satellite navigation system. The Redmi Note 9 Pro could use the Snapdragon 720G chipset that is promised to deliver superior gaming performance on par with what the Snapdragon 730G offers. We can also expect a 64-megapixel Sony camera at the back while Xiaomi could use a punch-hole style cutout design for the front.