The video will start in 8 Cancel

Sign up to FREE email alerts from Daily Star - Daily News Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

If you’re a pizza fan, chances are you’ve eaten at Domino’s – you may even have sampled the entire permanent menu.

While we all love the classic crust and popular flavours like Meteor, Margarita and Hawaiian (stop arguing, some people love it) you just can’t beat a special edition pizza.

Many of us flock to the American pizza giant, who first started selling pizza in the UK in 1985 when they announce the release of a new flavour.

In 2019 we had the Bacon Cheeseburger Pizza (ground beef, bacon, pickles and burger sauce) and the New York Hot Dog Pizza (hot dog pieces, mustard mayo and onion) and people rejoice when they joined the permanent menu.

Plus, only this week the Catalan Chicken & Chorizo (chicken, chorizo, onions, peppers, sour cream and paprika sauce) returned to the menu for Valentine’s Day.

Now, what if I told you that there was an area in the world where their Domino’s flavours blow the UK’s out of the water?

I’m not kidding.

They make our pizza look boring…

Domino’s is present in 85 countries, but the flavours in their pizza seem to peak in both deliciousness and weirdness in their Asia Pacific region.

Countries with some of Domino’s best sounding pizza flavours include Australia, New Zealand, China, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, Japan and Vietnam.

Now, when we say their pizzas have better toppings, we also mean there are different stuffed crust options, base sauce options and some even let you have four flavours on one pizza.

Some of the more incredible sounding toppings come from the ‘Premium Pizza’ ranges available – something which the UK doesn’t have.

We’ve put together a list of the weirdest, best and most interesting Domino’s flavours in the Asia Pacific region which will have you asking… why don’t we have that?

Australia

Firstly, we’re heading down-under to our laid-back cousins to see what they’re being offered that we aren’t.

On their regular menu is the interesting Philly Cheesesteak.

This pie, modelled after the American Philadelphia classic sandwich includes steak mushrooms, red onion, pepper and a cheddar sauce base.

You heard, the tomato base has been replaces with cheese sauce.

Sounds delicious.

The second thing we notice, is their vegetarian range is much bigger than the British one.

(Image: Dominos)

In Britain we have the Vegi Supreme, Fiery Vegi Sizzler and the classic Cheese & Tomato.

In Aus, they have no less than eight vegetarian options including a plant-based Loaded Burger pizza, plant-based Pepperoni, plant-based Hawaiian and plant-based Taco Fiesta.

They also have vegan Cheesy Garlic Bread.

Now, we have the ‘Premium Pizzas’ range, and this is where they’ll blow your socks off.

First up is the Reef, Steak & Bacon pizza.

This delicious pizza is adorned with Australian Banana prawns, seasoned steak, crispy bacon, spring onions and hollandaise sauce.

Then comes the Chicken, Bacon and Avocado pizza.

(Image: Dominos)

Described as having "succulent chicken, creamy avocado, crispy rasher bacon & red onion" it’s also topped with hollandaise and spring onions.

While the idea of hollandaise, the creamy sauce you’d expect on Eggs Benedict, on a pizza is admittedly odd I would like the OPTION.

Woe is me, they also have a Chicken & Camembert pizza and something called the ‘Fire Breather’ (pork sausage, pepperoni, ground beef, jalapeños, red onion and chilli flakes.)

New Zealand

The New Zealand offerings are generally similar to the Australian ones, however, I have spotted some rogue gems.

The Butter Chicken Pizza – described as "Succulent chicken with jalapenos, red onion, capsicum, tomato and stretchy mozzarella topped with an Indian butter sauce and fresh spring onion" it sounds like something we Brits would enjoy.

Don't you know our love for Tikka Masala, Domino's? That love is for all curry flavours!

Additionally, they have an entire range of not just vegetarian, but vegan pizzas.

(Image: Dominos)

There are seven vegetarian options and four vegan including a vegan Hawaiian.

In their 'Gourmet Range' is an Apricot Chicken (chicken, mozzarella, peppers, red onion, mozzarella and apricot sauce) - which, yeah, sounds a bit gross.

Their 'Traditional Range' includes a tasty sounding Korean BBQ Steak (steak, red onion and pepper served on a BBQ sauce base topped with chilli flakes, spring onion, sesame seeds & a sweet smoky Korean sauce) and the Mr Wedge which involves potato wedges on a pizza with ham and garlic mayonnaise.

Quite frankly, we are jealous.

China

Moving up the region to mainland China brings with it a total change in both website design and which pizza toppings are common.

Firstly, for Valentine's Day they sell heart-shaped pizzas which we would love to be sent.

Secondly, they sell pasta – this includes bolognese, coconut chicken pasta noodles and basil bacon noodles.

When it comes to the pizzas, those with a seafood aversion are in for a world of pain with this menu.

Highlights from the section which translates as 'Selection Privilege' include the Snow Crab, Shrimp and Rich Pizza (crab legs, prawns, tomatoes, asparagus and, cheese mayonnaise), the Teriyaki Style Octopus Shrimp Pizza (octopus, prawn, teriyaki sauce, mushrooms, mayo and cheese) and the Crayfish crispy Chicken Pizza (crayfish, chicken nuggets, smoked chicken, green pepper, corn, cheese, chilli sauce).

Incredible.

I am in awe of these options.

You can also customise your crust and stuff it with egg custard, sausage, sweet potato or double chilli.

On the classic menu are yet more weird and wonderful options including an American Style Potato & Bacon pizza - which they have almost certainly never sold in the USA - an Italian Pate Pizza and Fruit Pizza involving peach, coconut, pineapple and blueberry sauce.

For dessert you can order a Mianxiang Durian Cheese Pie, but I'm not sure you'd want to as the fruit is nicknamed the 'corpse fruit' for its pungent death-like smell.

Taiwan

If we travel North-East of China to Taiwan, where there is an odd looking, but tasty sounding, dessert pizza called the Brown Sugar Pearl Pizza which is covered in tapioca pearls, honey and little mochi balls.

(Image: Dominos)

Here in Taiwan you can split your pizza into four different varieties, rather than just two, and you can get 'Gold Luxury' items which appear to have a toasted molten mozzarella centre.

Seafood features heavily again, but this time in much more luxurious forms - enjoy such flavours as Portugese Seafood Curry, wwhich has curry chicken and crab, the Double Lobster and Shouxi beef which has Teriyaki Sauce, Sukiyaki Beef (Australian Beef), Japanese Lobster Salad, Onion, Mushroom, Red Pepper, Green Pepper, Corn and Seaweed Powder.

There's also the Double Lobster with Honey Lobster Pizza, featuring Pork slices, honey sauce, Japanese lobster salad, onion, green pepper, red pepper, corn, seaweed powder.

(Image: Dominos)

Alternatively, try the Takoyaki with Honey Sauce: Honey octopus, honey sauce, flower sticks, red pepper, mushrooms, onions, mayonnaise, seaweed powder.

Or, the Takoyaki Crab with Royal White Sauce: Creamy White Sauce, Onion, Corn, Honey Octopus, Crab Stick, Seaweed Powder.

In Taiwan you can stuff the crust of your pizza with gooey parmesan or a cream cheese and cheddar combo, or you can enjoy their mochi pastry crust, double crust or crisp cracker crust.

Korea

Fans of Korean food will not be surprised to hear that the country's Domino's offerings are unusual and outstandingly creative.

Their premium range is a treat to behold and includes, among others:

The Octopusbomb Shrimp: a combo of sliced octopus, gumbo sauce, prawns and cheese sauce.

(Image: Dominos)

Wagyu & Bistecca: thinly sliced Italian beef, Aussie Wagyu crumble, and a five cheese sauce.

Black Angus Steak: Angus beef, lobster balls and cheese.

On their regular menu they also offer Bulgogi Beef, a potato pizza, Korean Sweet Potato and the ability to have four different types of pizza on one pie.

Plus, you can order your pizza “Double Crust” where a second crust is baked onto the first - reminiscent of the much mourned Dominator crust.

Outstanding.

(Image: Dominos)

Singapore

The most-expensive, and cleanest, city in the world is a metropolitan of various food cultures, but does their money match their menu?

Kind of, items on their menu include Chilli Crab, Meatasaurus and multiple prawn pizzas.

However, they also offer some rather Italian-ish flavours: Valenciana Mushroom, which has a pesto base, Romana Margherita, with feta cheese and olives, and Alfredo Prawn, which includes pineapple, prawn and a secret sauce.

Not what was expected... but, we still want to try them all.

(Image: Dominos)

Japan

No, you can not buy sushi.

But, once again there’s a great selection including the four-way split option, Angus beef, a Smoked Salmon and Camembert Pizza (sounds a bit gross), premium sirloin and Wagyu pizzas.

Plus, they have the option of “Ultra Cheese” where they add masses of extra, stringy mozzarella and you can even add a delicious sounding “maple sauce” to your pizza.

Vietnam

Seafood features heavily again on the Vietnamese menu.

At first glance they sell a Tropical Seafood Pizza, Seafood Tomato Pizza, Beef & Shrimp Pizza and Mayonnaise Seafood Pizza.

A lot of seafood.

(Image: Dominos)

They also offer a striking pizza called the Pizza for “Little Friends” which is described rather oddly as “Fresh yellow like summer sunshine” and includes cheese, corn and quail eggs.

Donimo's has stores in many other asian countries including Guam, India and Bangladesh, but the above were our top picks for the weird and wonderful pizza on offer in the region.

Now, I know what you're thinking.

Will the UK be getting it's own premium range? Will we get any of these stuffed crusts, base types and strange toppings?

Well, no.

Sadly, when Domino's was approached about the idea of premium ranges in the UK, their press office said that there were no plans for anything like the Asia Pacific pizzas I've mentioned.

Domino's said: "We’re always looking for the next big flavour pizza to wow our customers and as intrigued as we are to give it a go, it's highly unlikely Octopusbomb Shrimp will be spotted on our menu any time soon.

"We’re really proud of our creations that our pizza-loving customers enjoy, in particular, the mind-blowing Cheeseburger pizza. The Catalan Chicken & Chorizo came back by popular demand this month and we’ve got some fresh ideas and exciting things to come in 2020."

To be honest, we'd be happy if they just brought back the Dominator crust.