Singapore – February 3, 2020 – WATG has released a new strategy report titled, “Beyond Ski: Shifting Dynamics in Asia Pacific”. The paper explores how the shifting demographics and growth of new markets impact the demand for mountain resort experiences in Asia Pacific. The report cites that twenty-two percent of global skiers (28.6 million) live in Asia Pacific. In 2018, the total visits to the top three ski destinations (Japan, South Korea and China) reached over 55 million.

Factors responsible for driving the emerging ski market include a generational shift, mostly millennials, who are entering the scene as “experience seekers” while a growing middle class are prioritizing more experience-based holidays. While the impact of climate change continues to pose a serious threat to the ski industry with shorter winter seasons and unpredictable weather patterns. To respond to these market catalysts and challenges, developers and operators are adapting and innovating to attract new audiences and expand their experiential offerings.

“A real shift in demand dynamics is creating opportunities for developers, investors and operators in this region,” said Guy Cooke, Associate and Head of Strategy at WATG Singapore. “As advisors, it is our role to support our clients with decisions that drive performance. Four big trends we are seeing range from catering more to beginners and the non-ski segment, providing more luxury and branded accommodation options (both hotel and residential), and incorporating summer activities to maintain a year-round destination.”

WATG’s world-renowned architects, designers, and master planners are currently working with clients throughout the Asia Pacific to respond to the growth and demand for mountain resort experiences. Architecture, design and planning projects include: Chongli, China; Tanggou International Hot Spring Resort, China; Bei Da Hu Ski Resort, China and Kiroro Resort, Japan.

The 12-page report explores the global ski market and catalysts and challenges for mountain destination development in Japan, South Korea and China. Download the full report here.

For more information, interviews or images please reach out to Erica Raskin.

About WATG

Founded in 1945 and celebrating its 75th anniversary in 2020, WATG is one of the world’s leading design firms specializing in hospitality, entertainment + gaming, urban + mixed-use and high-end residential design. WATG’s interior design firm, Wimberly Interiors, launched in 2008, and is consistently ranked in the Top 20 by Interior Design Magazine in its Hospitality Giants survey.

Since George “Pete” Wimberly founded the firm in Honolulu in 1945, WATG has grown to offer integrated design services including Strategy, Master Planning, Architecture, Landscape Architecture and Interiors for urban, tourism and resort destinations. WATG and Wimberly Interiors have offices in Honolulu, Irvine (California), Los Angeles, New York, London, Dubai, Singapore and Shanghai and are best known for creating internationally acclaimed destinations in more than 170 countries across six continents. WATG’s projects are renowned not only for their timeless design and sense of place but also for their bottom-line success.

Throughout the decades, WATG and Wimberly Interiors have designed over 500 built projects on behalf of distinguished clients and brands such as Accor, Belmond, Blackstone Group, China Jinmao Group, China Merchant, Chimelong, Emaar, Four Seasons, Hilton Worldwide, Huafa Group, Hyatt Hotels Corporation, InterContinental Hotels Group, intu Properties, JLL, Kempinski, Keppel Land, Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group, Marassi, Marriott International, MGM Resorts International, Minor Hotels, Mont Choisy Group, New Century Tourism Group, R.D. Olson Development, The Red Sea Development Company, Rosewood Hotel Group, Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts, Suning, Viceroy Hotels & Resorts and Walt Disney Parks and Resorts.