This article is written for those who want to get better at using price to earnings ratios (P/E ratios). We'll show how you can use Qingdao Holdings International Limited's (HKG:499) P/E ratio to inform your assessment of the investment opportunity. Based on the last twelve months, Qingdao Holdings International's P/E ratio is 22.65. In other words, at today's prices, investors are paying HK$22.65 for every HK$1 in prior year profit.

View our latest analysis for Qingdao Holdings International

How Do I Calculate A Price To Earnings Ratio?

The formula for price to earnings is:

Price to Earnings Ratio = Share Price รท Earnings per Share (EPS)

Or for Qingdao Holdings International:

P/E of 22.65 = HKD0.52 รท HKD0.02 (Based on the year to September 2019.)

Is A High Price-to-Earnings Ratio Good?

The higher the P/E ratio, the higher the price tag of a business, relative to its trailing earnings. That isn't necessarily good or bad, but a high P/E implies relatively high expectations of what a company can achieve in the future.

Does Qingdao Holdings International Have A Relatively High Or Low P/E For Its Industry?

We can get an indication of market expectations by looking at the P/E ratio. As you can see below, Qingdao Holdings International has a much higher P/E than the average company (6.6) in the real estate industry.

SEHK:499 Price Estimation Relative to Market, February 10th 2020 More

That means that the market expects Qingdao Holdings International will outperform other companies in its industry. Clearly the market expects growth, but it isn't guaranteed. So investors should always consider the P/E ratio alongside other factors, such as whether company directors have been buying shares.

How Growth Rates Impact P/E Ratios

Earnings growth rates have a big influence on P/E ratios. If earnings are growing quickly, then the 'E' in the equation will increase faster than it would otherwise. Therefore, even if you pay a high multiple of earnings now, that multiple will become lower in the future. So while a stock may look expensive based on past earnings, it could be cheap based on future earnings.

In the last year, Qingdao Holdings International grew EPS like Taylor Swift grew her fan base back in 2010; the 202% gain was both fast and well deserved.

Don't Forget: The P/E Does Not Account For Debt or Bank Deposits

The 'Price' in P/E reflects the market capitalization of the company. That means it doesn't take debt or cash into account. Theoretically, a business can improve its earnings (and produce a lower P/E in the future) by investing in growth. That means taking on debt (or spending its cash).

Spending on growth might be good or bad a few years later, but the point is that the P/E ratio does not account for the option (or lack thereof).

Qingdao Holdings International's Balance Sheet

Net debt totals a substantial 132% of Qingdao Holdings International's market cap. If you want to compare its P/E ratio to other companies, you must keep in mind that these debt levels would usually warrant a relatively low P/E.

The Verdict On Qingdao Holdings International's P/E Ratio

Qingdao Holdings International has a P/E of 22.6. That's higher than the average in its market, which is 10.0. Its meaningful level of debt should warrant a lower P/E ratio, but the fast EPS growth is a positive. So despite the debt it is, perhaps, not unreasonable to see a high P/E ratio.