Craving Asian food?

Hoodline crunched the numbers to find the best affordable Asian restaurants around Las Vegas, using both Yelp data and our own secret sauce to produce a ranked list of the best spots to fill the bill.

1. Oh! Curry

Topping the list is Oh! Curry. Located at 5051 Stewart Ave., Suite 101, it is the highest-rated budget-friendly Asian restaurant in Las Vegas, boasting 4.5 stars out of 372 reviews on Yelp.

The Japanese curry house features pork and chicken cutlets, kurobuta sausage, curried udon and beef curry dogs, among other options.

2. Aloha Specialties

Photo: loretta c./Yelp

Next up is downtown's Aloha Specialties, situated at 12 E. Ogden Ave. in the California Hotel & Casino. With four stars out of 761 reviews on Yelp, the Hawaiian, Japanese and Asian fusion spot has proved to be a local favorite for those looking for an affordable option.

Yelper Caroline C., who reviewed Aloha Specialties on Jan. 21, wrote, "I settled for the Aloha bento. It comes with teriyaki steak, Korean chicken, mahi mahi and redondo hot dog, served with a mountain of rice. The steak is tender and the sauce isn't overwhelming. ... The mahi mahi is different from anything I have ever tried. ... The sauce makes it."

Yelper jeffrey l. wrote, "My go-to is the mixed plate. It comes with spam musubi (2), teriyaki beef, teriyaki chicken and macaroni salad. This time I got a side of kimchi. The kimchi was slightly sour with a hint of spice. It was perfect. "

3. Chop Chop Wok

Photo: Ty W./Yelp

Chop Chop Wok, located at 6812 W. Cheyenne Ave., is another top choice, with Yelpers giving the budget-friendly Chinese and Japanese spot four stars out of 235 reviews.

Yelper Xanthe Q., who reviewed Chop Chop Wok on Oct. 20, wrote, "We got home and opened up the boxes and were pleasantly surprised how much food we got. Two large portions of hot and sour and egg drop soup, one bag with appetizers, one large container of broccoli beef, one of general's chicken, one pork fried rice and an extra container of 'small' chow mein. Everything, I mean everything, was delish. Full of flavor and very fresh."

Renee B. wrote, "The great thing about Chop Chop Wok is that their prices are easy on the wallet without sacrificing flavor or portion size. For their combo special, $7.95 gets you an entree of your choice, served with either pork fried rice or lo mein, with an egg roll and crab rangoon."

4. Teriyaki Madness

Photo: teriyaki madness/Yelp

This outpost of the national chain Teriyaki Madness, a Japanese and Asian fusion spot in Summerlin, is another inexpensive go-to, with four stars out of 13 Yelp reviews. Head over to 10300 W. Charleston Blvd., Suites 6 and 7, to see for yourself.

We turned there for more about Teriyaki Madness.

"The founders of Teriyaki Madness made it their mission to take the fresh teriyaki taste of home where it seldom had gone before," the business states on its Yelp profile.

Concerning signature items, "We serve our customers satisfying entrees like our teriyaki chicken, which is fully customizable, with fire-grilled, all-natural, never frozen, hand-trimmed chicken and house-made from scratch teriyaki sauce," it states on its Yelp page.

5. China A Go Go

Photo: mk and jc h./Yelp

Finally, check out China A Go Go, which has earned four stars out of 164 reviews on Yelp. Dig in at the Chinese, Japanese and Thai spot by heading over to 10450 W. Cheyenne Ave., Suite 120.

Yelper Derek O., who reviewed China A Go Go on Sept. 30 wrote, "Just picked up a quick lunch here — it's fantastic. ... I did the orange chicken lunch special for $8 ... very happy with the quality of food."

Yelper Tatyana T. wrote, "If you're looking for quality Chinese cuisine at an affordable price, this is your place. I usually get the Family A or B set, which gives you a little of everything (appetizer, choice of soup and two entrees, plain or fried rice). So good."

This story was created automatically using local business data, then reviewed and augmented by an editor. Click here for more about what we're doing. Got thoughts? Go here to share your feedback.