Shanghai (Gasgoo)- China's NEV startup Leading Ideal has delayed the delivery of the Leading Ideal One REEVs (range-extended electric vehicles) which were supposed to be handed over to consumers in February and March as the new coronavirus infection spreads, according to a statement the company released on Feb. 2.

The startup said the concrete delivery date will come under discussion before Feb. 15 based on the component supply performance after suppliers resume operation, and it will strive to make the delivery postponed by no longer than one month.



(Photo source: Leading Ideal)



Besides, some new cars output before the Lunar New Year holiday will be available for delivery starting Feb. 10 according to the business resumption.

Leading Ideal pointed out that the production and delivery of the Leading Ideal One SUV—the startup's first mass-produced model—were delayed as the manufacturing operations of China's auto parts suppliers were widely impacted by the request about the epidemic prevention and control from the state and local governments. Notably, over 10% components were produced by companies in Hubei, the most-infected province in China.

The EV manufacturer output 1,530 and handed over more than 1,000 new vehicles in last December, the month seeing the delivery kick off, Leading Ideal's CEO Li Xiang said via his social platform.

Prior to the latest announcement, the delivery kick-off had been put off by one month as the company decided to directly offer consumers the newest “2020 version”, skipping the former “2019” version.

With the price remaining unchanged, the “2020 version” of the REEV model features many upgrades over the “2019” in terms of sound-deadening tech, tires, driver assistance system, suspension, braking system and headlights.

Gasgoo not only offers timely news and profound insight about China auto industry, but also help with business connection and expansion for suppliers and purchasers via multiple channels and methods. Buyer service: buyer-support@gasgoo.com Seller Service: seller-support@gasgoo.com

All Rights Reserved. Do not reproduce, copy and use the editorial content without permission. Contact us: autonews@gasgoo.com.