CANTON Helen Coffy was anxious to let the world see her new look while her hair was being attended to by a Portage Lakes Career Center cosmetology student Sunday.

"I am getting pampered and loving it," said Coffy, who was among the guests receiving free hair care, manicures and waxing during the annual Love, Hair & Happiness event. "I am going to enjoy it. It is nice to have a different look once in a while."

Held in the YWCA, Love, Hair & Happiness is coordinated by Yvonne Reese, operator of Intrigue Salon & Spa in Jackson Township. Along with cosmetology services, guests were provided free prepared food and pastry which was served on a buffet table.

"Everything got donated; food, backpacks," Reese said. "We had backpacks stuffed with gifts. This is our fifth year. We just have a Valentine’s Day party for the homeless community. All of the homeless are invited. It is a day of beauty. My motto is, ’Look good, feel good.’"

To put on Love, Hair & Happiness, Reese receives support and assistance from various local businesses and hair salons.

"I am just coordinator," she said. "I know a lot of people in the business."

Much of the food came from Falcone’s Tavern, Gabe’s Meat & Deli and Smith’s Waco Market.

A local dentist, Dr. Bryan Terhune, donated tooth-care items, such as tooth brushes and dental floss.

A total of 179 guests were served at the event which started at about 11 a.m. Sunday.

Just before opening the door, "we had people standing outside," Reese said. "This the biggest one. We stuffed 175 backpacks and they are gone."

Among those who came was Ciana Boles who brought her three children - an 8-year-old and 5-year-old twins.

Love, Hair & Happiness served to "get them out of the house," said Boles, while her children were engaged in some arts and crafts. "The weather has been bad so far. They are enjoying themselves."

Target group for the program were women living at the YWCA or at the organization’s housing facilities known as New Beginnings, Gateway I and Gateway II. Also, Refuge of Hope residents were expected to attend.

"It is a feel-good event for some of our residents," said Autaum Kendle, director of marketing and volunteer coordination at the YWCA. "We have the largest women’s homeless shelter in Stark County. It is a way the community gives back and makes our residents feel normal."

Joe Ianni of Ianni’s Barber Shop of Perry Township had his crew providing haircuts.

For Ianni, this is a way to "give a little bit back to the community. This is the fourth time in a row that we have done it."

While accepting donations for the event, Reese said she cannot look to large retail corporations, such as Walmart or J.C. Penney.

"I am not a nonprofit," Reese said. "I can’t get stuff like that. I can’t go to the corporations."

Rather, she relies on small local businesses and individuals.

Any food remaining after Love, Hair & Happiness ends was to be donated to the Refuge of Hope shelter.

"I have always had a heart for the homeless," Reese said.

Reach Malcolm at 330-580-8305

or malcolm.hall@cantonrep.com

On Twitter: mhallREP