“He (my father) challenged me to sell at a high price, which went against the conventional wisdom of selling low and selling more. However, the product had to be of good quality and different from the others.”

Pillar of Filipino-Chinese community discusses hybrid rice and good relations

The global spread of the coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19), which originated in Hubei province, China, sadly revealed man’s darker nature and thoughtless tendency to be prejudiced and discriminating.

Fortunately, national organizations such as the Federation of Filipino Chinese Chamber of Commerce and Industry Inc. (FFCCCII) were quick to address the burgeoning issue, urging Filipinos, through strongly worded statements, to avoid making “racist” remarks and fanning the fires of misunderstanding. Henry Lim Bon Liong, president of the chamber, told Boardroom Watch: “I don’t want to pit local-born Chinese against the mainlanders. Masama ‘yan (That’s wrong).

“Aba, galing din China ang mga ninuno natin (Why, our forefathers also came from China).

“In fact, one of the responsibilities of our association is to help anyone from China assimilate [into Philippine society].”

Immigrant’s tale

Dr. Lim, who boasts of a raft of civic awards and honorary degrees for his indefatigable efforts to “give back” to the country, embodies the quintessential immigrant story that’s been heard before, but never ceases to amaze in the retelling. His father Lim Seh Leng arrived in the Philippines on that proverbial boat from Fujian province in southern China, a boy of only 11, along with other fortune seekers. He wound up in Binondo, the Chinese enclave across the Pasig River from Manila’s elegant Spanish settlement, Intramuros. The senior Lim met and married Maria Co Chiao Ti, and together the couple had seven children, of which Dr. Lim was the eldest and his only sister, the youngest.

“I forced myself to believe in what I could do… it may have been pure nerve that gave me the courage and ability to run Sterling Co. But earning the approval and respect of my father was one of my biggest motivations.”

Dr. Lim recalls that so fervently did his father wish to acquire Filipino citizenship, he lapped up any bit of Filipino trivia he could, such as Q: What is the Filipino’s favorite pasttime? A: Sabong (cockfighting). He could even sing the National Anthem flawlessly. He achieved his ambition, and in 1964, he and his family became Filipino citizens.

Dr. Lim’s father found his early business niche, setting up Sterling Bookbinding, which has the Sterling photo album as its main product. Sterling Paper Products Enterprises, which featured school and office supplies, later joined the group. As the oldest son, Dr. Lim was made to learn the ropes as early as his high school years. “I was the bodega (storeroom) boy, the agent and in charge of delivery,” he says with a chuckle. He also accompanied his dad on business trips across the country and overseas. “He taught me the value of money and quality products, as well as the art of negotiating.”

From him, the boy learned that risks were part of life’s game and came with unique rewards. “He challenged me to sell at a high price, which went against the conventional wisdom of selling low and selling more. Sell high, he said, and still sell even more. However, the product had be of good quality and different from the others.”

Growing up fast

In 1976, Dr. Lim experienced his first major setback: his father, then only 49, died suddenly in Hong Kong. At just 25, he had to assume the presidency of Sterling Co., not to mention fill the yawning void left by his parent in the family’s life. “I knew from the start that his were big shoes to fill.” It also didn’t help that there was no lack of naysayers predicting the company would go down under his watch.

The years that followed saw Dr. Lim struggle to keep the company afloat and raise its profile, especially Sterling notebooks, their main product. He credits his brash youth and wish to honor his father’s memory as motivating factors. “I forced myself to believe in what I could do. Looking back, some would say that it may have been pure nerve that gave me the courage and ability to run Sterling Co. at a very young age. Or, it may have even been the impulsiveness of my youth. But earning the approval and respect of my father was one of my biggest motivations during those challenging times in my mid-20s.”

An engineering graduate of the University of the Philippines Diliman, Dr. Lim later realized he should have heeded his father’s earlier counsel to pursue an economics, marketing or management degree. “Engineering didn’t help you understand balance sheets,” he declares. To catch up, he enrolled in business courses at the Ateneo de Manila as well an Executive Education Program at Harvard Business School. These opportunities, he reflected in a previous interview, showed him “that no one is too old or too successful to learn something new.”

Such gung ho attitude was to serve Dr. Lim well in the late 1990s when he embarked on an enterprise far removed from his comfort zone. He became a hybrid-rice entrepreneur.

Rice entrepreneur

For one, who readily admits he had no idea how much a kilo of rice cost in the market at the time, Dr. Lim has crossed oceans. He says he owes his epiphany to former president and close friend Joseph Estrada, who said he would make agriculture the cornerstone of his platform should he win the elections. The prospect of enhancing rice production efficiency and the farmers’ quality of life fired him with an intensity that made him defy friends and associates, who predicted he would fail in this venture. “It was my mother, who encouraged me to develop our own Filipino hybrid rice with the help of Prof. Yuan Longpin (known as the ‘Father of Hybrid Rice’) and purchase that 40 hectares in Laguna for our plantation.”

To handle the agricultural operations of Sterling Co., Dr. Lim established SL Agritech, the initials “SL,” for his father Seh Leng.

In November 2000, Dr. Lim again encountered a devastating watershed in his life. Fresh from the opening of a family owned department store in Olongapo City, the van, ferrying Dr. Lim and relatives back to Manila, figured in a head on collision. He lost his mother and younger brother in the accident and suffered five broken ribs, which kept him from lying flat for months. “I cursed Heaven as to why this had to happen, and I survived,” he says impassively two decades later. “But they say things happen for a reason.”

About two months after, one of Dr. Yuan’s Chinese researchers claimed that Dr. Lim’s mother appeared to him in a dream, issuing instructions to go to Plot 8 in the hacienda to check on developments in their hybrid-rice experiment. What he discovered must have been positive, leading to the successful production, distribution and marketing of SL-8H or Doña Maria Premium Rice, in loving honor of the Lim matriarch. The rice seeds are not only utilized in the Philippines but in other Asian countries such as Indonesia, Bangladesh, Vietnam and Myanmar. SL Agritech has been engaged in rice exportation in the Middle East and US since 2013.

Legacy defined

At a stage when most tycoons are firming up their legacy, Dr. Henry Lim Bon Liong is one of the lucky ones to have discovered his early on. “I want to be remembered as someone, who raised the standard of living of the farmers in Southeast Asia through hybrid-rice technology,” he says. “I want it to benefit, not only our Filipino farmers, but also those in the region, and even as far as Africa.”

Whether through innovative rice production, meaningful civic projects or strengthening cultural bonds, Dr. Henry Lim Bon Liong is a bridge builder extraordinaire.

* * *

Lessons from dad

Dr. Henry Lim Bon Liong learned about life’s realities early on. He had the best teacher he could ask for: his father.

• He did not spoil me with riches or luxuries that many of my classmates took for granted. But he provided me with the best gift of all — a good education.

• He showed me the only way to achieve my dreams was through hard work and determination. I studied his ways and learned from him as diligently as I could, and I did.

• He taught me the value of money and quality products and the art of negotiating. He showed me there are risks worth taking, and that come with unique rewards.

PHOTOS BY MINDY GANA