Editor: Ling Xiao

Chen Zhiyuan kneels to propose to his girlfriend Wen Lihong at Ganzhou West Railway Station in Ganzhou, east China's Jiangxi Province, January 14, 2020. Chen Zhiyuan, a 27-year-old staff member of Yingtan section of China Railway Nanchang Group Co., Ltd., and Wen Lihong, a 23-year-old staff member of Ganzhou West Railway Station, have been in love for two years. Due to their busy works, they can only meet each other once a month. On this Tuesday, Chen was assigned to work at Ganzhou Railway Station and had to turn back to Nanchang in the afternoon. He had only 15 minutes to meet with his girlfriend at Ganzhou West Railway Station before boarding the train. Chen grasped this opportunity to propose to her girlfriend and got accepted, which was witnessed by passengers. [Xinhua/Hu Chenhuan]

Chen Zhiyuan (R) helps his girlfriend Wen Lihong wear a scarf at Ganzhou West Railway Station in Ganzhou, east China's Jiangxi Province, January 14, 2020. Chen Zhiyuan, a 27-year-old staff member of Yingtan section of China Railway Nanchang Group Co., Ltd., and Wen Lihong, a 23-year-old staff member of Ganzhou West Railway Station, have been in love for two years. Due to their busy works, they can only meet each other once a month. On this Tuesday, Chen was assigned to work at Ganzhou Railway Station and had to turn back to Nanchang in the afternoon. He had only 15 minutes to meet with his girlfriend at Ganzhou West Railway Station before boarding the train. Chen grasped this opportunity to propose to her girlfriend and got accepted, which was witnessed by passengers. [Xinhua/Hu Chenhuan]

Chen Zhiyuan puts a ring on his fiancee Wen Lihong's finger after the proposal at Ganzhou West Railway Station in Ganzhou, east China's Jiangxi Province, January 14, 2020. Chen Zhiyuan, a 27-year-old staff member of Yingtan section of China Railway Nanchang Group Co., Ltd., and Wen Lihong, a 23-year-old staff member of Ganzhou West Railway Station, have been in love for two years. Due to their busy works, they can only meet each other once a month. On this Tuesday, Chen was assigned to work at Ganzhou Railway Station and had to turn back to Nanchang in the afternoon. He had only 15 minutes to meet with his girlfriend at Ganzhou West Railway Station before boarding the train. Chen grasped this opportunity to propose to her girlfriend and got accepted, which was witnessed by passengers. [Xinhua/Hu Chenhuan]

Wen Lihong waves goodbye to her fiance Chen Zhiyuan at Ganzhou West Railway Station in Ganzhou, east China's Jiangxi Province, January 14, 2020. Chen Zhiyuan, a 27-year-old staff member of Yingtan section of China Railway Nanchang Group Co., Ltd., and Wen Lihong, a 23-year-old staff member of Ganzhou West Railway Station, have been in love for two years. Due to their busy works, they can only meet each other once a month. On this Tuesday, Chen was assigned to work at Ganzhou Railway Station and had to turn back to Nanchang in the afternoon. He had only 15 minutes to meet with his girlfriend at Ganzhou West Railway Station before boarding the train. Chen grasped this opportunity to propose to her girlfriend and got accepted, which was witnessed by passengers. [Xinhua/Hu Chenhuan]

Chen Zhiyuan gives his fiancee Wen Lihong a hug at Ganzhou West Railway Station in Ganzhou, east China's Jiangxi Province, January 14, 2020. Chen Zhiyuan, a 27-year-old staff member of Yingtan section of China Railway Nanchang Group Co., Ltd., and Wen Lihong, a 23-year-old staff member of Ganzhou West Railway Station, have been in love for two years. Due to their busy works, they can only meet each other once a month. On this Tuesday, Chen was assigned to work at Ganzhou Railway Station and had to turn back to Nanchang in the afternoon. He had only 15 minutes to meet with his girlfriend at Ganzhou West Railway Station before boarding the train. Chen grasped this opportunity to propose to her girlfriend and got accepted, which was witnessed by passengers. [Xinhua/Hu Chenhuan]

(Source: Xinhua)