FARGO - A Panda Express is coming to the Prairie Stone Center in south Fargo, according to building permit information filed with the city of Fargo.

The Prairie Stone Center, which is still under construction, will also be home to a number of other restaurants that have indicated they are coming to Fargo, including Uncle Maddio's Pizza Joint; Potbelly Sandwich Shop; and Classic Rock Coffee.

The address for the new Panda Express will be 1690 45th St. S., according to information filed with the city.

A Panda Exress outlet is already operating in the food court at North Dakota State University.

The company has more than 1,600 restaurants throughout the United States and Puerto Rico and is the fastest-growing Chinese restaurant concept in the United States, according to information on the Panda Express website.

listen live watch live

The company operates all Panda Express locations.

Integreon building new facility in south Fargo

FARGO - Integreon, a provider of legal, document, research and business support solutions for corporations and law firms, broke ground Monday on a new 34,000-square-foot facility.

The company started here with two employees in 2001. It now has 300 employees locally and 2,000 worldwide. Fargo is the headquarters for the company's on-shore document services work and document services business unity support team. The company's other three business units are in major metropolitan cities.

Integreon employees in Fargo provide 24-hour service to clients, such as document processing, marketing support, transcription, proofreading, human resources and legal document review services.

The company will move into the new facility at 3247 47th St. S., Fargo, at the end of November.

Fargo gets love from Forbes magazine

FARGO - Two recent articles published by Forbes are lauding Fargo.

Contributor Joel Kotkin praised the city's sustained growth over the past decade in advance of today's debut of the television series "Fargo." The piece, "No Joke: It Couldn't Get Much Better in Fargo," detailed the state's in-migration, income growth and job creation, as well as Fargo's revitalized downtown.

In the piece "Five Things Fargo Can Teach You About Community," entrepreneur Ben Hanten shares lessons in community building and creating startup culture from Emerging Prairie founders Greg Tehven, Jake Joraanstad, Miguel Danielson and Andy Christensen.

His key lessons include celebrating others in your town, branding, and not expecting a profit.

Both pieces can be read at Forbes.com.

Dakota Supply Group buying Rochester firm

FARGO - Dakota Supply Group of Fargo is purchasing Woodruff Co., a plumbing and utilities wholesale supply firm in Rochester, Minn.

The sale is expected to be finalized by the end of April, according to Todd Kumm, CEO of Dakota Supply Group.

Woodruff, a 67-year-old family-owned company, has locations in Rochester, Austin, Winona and St. Paul in Minnesota as well as in La Crosse, Wis.

Dakota Supply Group is a distributor of plumbing, electrical, HVAC, refrigeration, communications, filtration and metering systems.

The company has about 650 employees and locations in Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin and Montana.

Submit tips about local business to businessnews@forumcomm.com