President Trump blamed his impeachment on 'radical-left lunatics' as he thanked farmers and ranchers for supporting him during the trade war with China.

He thanked farmers on Sunday for supporting him through the tariff hikes and currency battle with China as he promoted a new North American trade agreement and a separate one with Beijing that he said will massively benefit the industry.

Trump made the remarks as he addressed the American Farm Bureau Federation's convention in Austin, Texas, on Sunday.

The president's impeachment trial in the Senate gets underway in earnest on Tuesday.

That night, Trump is scheduled to leave on a trip to an international economic summit in Davos, Switzerland before returning to the White House on Wednesday night.

As he spoke to the roaring crowd, Trump listed his economic agenda, including two new trade deals involving China, Canada, and Mexico but quickly turned to his upcoming impeachment hearing.

He said: 'And what do I get out of it? Tell me? I get impeached. That's what I get out of it.

'By these radical left lunatics, I get impeached. But that's OK, the farmers are sticking with Trump.'

President Donald Trump spoke at the American Farm Bureau Federation's convention in Austin, Texas, on Sunday

Trump tweeted of his excitement to be in Texas speaking to farmers after his speech was done

At one point during his address to the convention, Trump said he has strong support among farmers following his signing last week of a preliminary trade deal with China.

'We did it,' Trump said, recalling his campaign promises to improve America's trading relationships with other countries.

When Trump spoke to the American Farm Bureau Federation's last year, he urged farmers to continue supporting him even as they suffered financially in the fallout from his trade war with China and a partial shutdown of the federal government.

His follow-up speech Sunday at this year's convention in Austin, Texas, gave him a chance to make the case to farmers that he kept promises he made as a candidate to improve trade with China and separately with Canada and Mexico.

He thanked farmers for staying 'in the fight'.

'You were always with me,' Trump said. 'You never even thought of giving up and we got it done.

'We are winning for our farmers and we are winning like never before Farmers love America, and I just want to tell you that America loves our farmers.'

After coming off stage the president, feel exuberant tweeted: 'I was thrilled to be back in the Great State of Texas tonight, where the people are known for being tough, strong, hardworking, loyal and fiercely patriotic — just like America's incredible Farmers!'

Trump assured American farmers and ranchers hit by a trade war with China that a new agreement signed with Beijing will be good for them

President Trump landed in Washington after speaking at the American Farm Bureau Federation Annual Convention and Trade Show in Austin, Texas

The President appeared to have a lot on his mind as he walked back inside to the White House. His impeachment trial is scheduled to begin on Tuesday of this week

Once the President was back at the White House, he started tweeting about how unfairly the impeachment process had been treating him

The Republican president wants another term in office and is seeking to shore up support among his base, including farmers.

Trump announced he is taking steps to protect the water rights of farmers and ranchers by directing the Army Corps of Engineers to immediately withdraw a new water supply rule and allow states to manage water resources based on their own needs and what the agricultural community wants.

'Water is the lifeblood of agriculture and we will always protect your water supply,' Trump said.

Trump signed a preliminary trade deal with China at the White House last Wednesday that commits Beijing to boosting its imports of U.S. manufacturing, energy and farm goods by $200 billion this year and next.

That includes larger purchases of soybeans and other farm goods expected to reach $40 billion a year, the U.S. has said, though critics wonder if China can meet the targets.

In Austin, Trump described the trade agreement with China as 'groundbreaking' and said, 'We're going to sell the greatest product you've ever seen.'

President Donald Trump listens to applause on stage as he speaks at the American Farm Bureau Federation's convention in Austin. It had all the hallmarks of a political stump speech

Also last week, the Senate voted overwhelmingly in favor of the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, a successor to the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement. The administration designed the new agreement to return some factory production to the United States, mostly automobiles.

Trump said in Austin that U.S. farmers will also benefit under USMCA, which he said will 'massively boost exports' for farmers, ranchers, growers from 'North to South' and 'from sea to shining sea.'

NAFTA had triggered a surge in trade among the three countries, but Trump and other critics blamed it for U.S. job losses brought about when American factories moved production south of the border to take advantage of low-wage labor in Mexico.

The House passed the U.S.-Mexico-Canada deal in December. Trump said he would sign it after he returns from a trip to Europe this week.

In his remarks to farmers, Trump claimed his administration is doing things no other administration has ever done.

Once the President was back at the White House, he started tweeting about how unfairly the impeachment process had been treating him.

'In the House, the President got less due process than the 9-11 terrorists got. This is a corrupt process?' Mark Levin @marklevinshow 'Very much so!' he tweeted.

Trump said the initial trade deal he signed with China last Wednesday would be a boon for farmers, whom he thanked for sticking with him

Attendees await the arrival of U.S. President Donald Trump to speak at the American Farm Bureau Federation Annual Convention and Trade Show in Austin, Texas

Beginning Tuesday, the chamber will meet six hours a day for six days a week in only the third impeachment trial of a US president, with lofty constitutional issues brushing up against raw partisan politics.

It will be a 'grueling exercise,' Republican Senator John Cornyn said on CBS.

Celebrity attorney Alan Dershowitz, a recent addition to Trump's legal team, argued Sunday that even if every charge sent by the House to the Senate for the president's trial were accepted as true, it would not rise to the level of impeachable behavior.

'The (House) vote was to impeach on abuse of power, which is not within the constitutional criteria for impeachment, and obstruction of Congress,' Dershowitz, a Harvard law professor emeritus, said on ABC.

A politically motivated impeachment, he added, was the 'greatest nightmare' of the country's founders.

Adam Schiff, the California lawmaker chosen by House Democrats as lead manager of the impeachment trial, dismissed the notion that abuse of power was not impeachable.

'That's an argument you have to make if the facts are so dead set against you,' he said on ABC.

Another House impeachment manager, Jerrold Nadler, called Dershowitz's argument 'arrant nonsense.'

The House impeached Trump on charges that he abused his office by pressuring Ukraine to dig up dirt on Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden by withholding military aid and dangling a White House meeting with the Ukrainian president.

He was also charged with obstructing Congress.