Alabama Commerce Secretary Greg Canfield will be among those attending this morning’s signing of the Phase 1 trade deal between the United States and China at the White House.

President Donald Trump is scheduled to sign the 86-page agreement with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He at 10:30 a.m. CST.

The deal, approved in December, includes a commitment by China to make at least $200 billion in additional purchases of U.S. goods and services over the next two years. The ceremony is hoped to mark a truce in the trade war between the two superpowers that has rattled markets for more than two years.

Canfield is among several invited guests, and said he believes the trade pact is a “positive step."

“It begins a process to establish a framework from which to create a pathway to more normalized trade on a fair basis between these two nations,” Canfield said. “China has historically been a Top 3 destination for Alabama exports, so this represents an important step for many companies in our state that do business on a global scale.”

Just looking at a few Alabama exports shows the effects of the trade war.

Alabama exports of soybeans and peanuts to China in 2016 totaled nearly $285 million, according to data from the Alabama Department of Commerce. Two years later those shipments dropped to $20 million. Last November, they were at zero.

Overall, through the first 11 months of 2019, Alabama’s exports to China dropped more than 30 percent compared to same period in the previous year. Shipments of Alabama-made vehicles to China fell by nearly 32 percent in the 11-month period.

The trade deal encompasses economic and trade policies in the areas of intellectual property, technology transfer, agriculture, financial services, and currency and foreign exchange. The deal also includes a commitment by China to increase its buying of U.S. agricultural products to $40 billion to $50 billion in each of the next two years.

According to MarketWatch, the deal leaves in place tariffs on about $360 billion in Chinese imports, and tables other issues, such as China reducing unfair subsidies for its own companies, for future talks.