© Jenna Kieser | jkieser@mlive.com/Jenna Kieser/mlive.com/TNS Fresh fish at Monahan's Seafood in Kerrytown on Friday, Jan. 24, 2020. Monahan's is celebrating 40 years of business.

ANN ARBOR, MI -- When the retail landscape began to change, Mike Monahan altered the way he sold fish.

People from all over of the world started coming to Monahan’s Seafood in Kerrytown to request different types of fish from their home countries. It became a staple in the community when Monahan prioritized catering to his customers’ requests.

“All of a sudden, we had Chinese people lined up here for blue crab,” Monahan said. “We kind of expanded the market, we learned what people wanted and ordered what they wanted.”

© Jenna Kieser | jkieser@mlive.com/Jenna Kieser/mlive.com/TNS Customers eat lunch at Monahan's Seafood in Kerrytown on Friday, Jan. 24, 2020. Monahan's is celebrating 40 years of business.

Monahan’s Seafood over the last 40 years has made whatever one adjustment after another to stay in business, selling its goods wholesale, offering a lunch menu and expanding its fish offerings to items imported from the Mediterranean and Asia. Monahan and Zingerman’s co-foudner Paul Saginaw took over the fish market, which was originally started by Ann Arbor’s Real Seafood Company, in the late 1970s.

“We started doing things Real Seafood wasn’t doing,” Monahan said. “We did wholesale around town. We catered more to the neighborhood, which was quite different in 1979. This was mainly a black neighborhood. The market has changed around us... Americans are eating more fish than they did back in 1979.”

© Jenna Kieser | jkieser@mlive.com/Jenna Kieser/mlive.com/TNS Owner of Monahan's Seafood Mike Monahan and his daughter Sarah at their restaurant in Kerrytown on Friday, Jan. 24, 2020. Sarah has worked at Monahan's with her dad for the past 12 years.

Monahan fought his way through tough moments in the retail environment, pushing past recessions and keeping up with growing competition.

“We’ve been around so long that we remember days, back when women were mostly housewives and stay home, and they would cook a lot. They’d come through here with their strollers ... all of a sudden, we saw less and less moms coming in,” Monahan said. “We weren’t getting the foot traffic for retail, so we came up with these oven-ready dinners. We even did microwaveable dinners to solve the problem of the busy working family.”

To boost sales and retail even more, they began serving lunch 11 years ago, though Monahan and his team weren’t wild about it, because retail was their priority.

“Retail is going to get harder and harder as time goes on. We kind of want to reignite the place a little,” Monahan said. “We had people who were spending time with us… instead of just in and out. We were getting to know all these new restaurant customers and often, they would buy fish. We have our set menu, but we also have a pick-a-fish feature, where a customer can pick anything out of the case.”

© Jenna Kieser | jkieser@mlive.com/Jenna Kieser/mlive.com/TNS Old photos and fish jokes adorn the walls at Monahan's Seafood in Kerrytown on Friday, Jan. 24, 2020. Monahan's is celebrating 40 years of business.

Some of his favorites include King Salmon from the Copper River in Alaska, Mackerel, clams and mussels.

© Jenna Kieser | jkieser@mlive.com/Jenna Kieser/mlive.com/TNS Customers eat and shop at Monahan's Seafood in Kerrytown on Friday, Jan. 24, 2020. Monahan's is celebrating 40 years of business.

“Some people like fuller flavored fish like Mackerel. That’s something not a lot of markets sell, because it’s considered a darker, oily fish. We like fish like that. They’re full of good omega-3 fats. They hold up to any flavors, like a caper lemon sauce with teriyaki,” Monahan said. “We can source almost anything. If somebody asks for something we don’t have, we can usually find something that’s at least very similar."

Ann Arbor resident Mehmet Cetinel orders lunch from Monahan’s four days a week. Throughout the week, he’ll eat King Salmon, oysters, steamed mussels and sardines.

© Jenna Kieser | jkieser@mlive.com/Jenna Kieser/mlive.com/TNS Employees lay out fresh fish at Monahan's Seafood in Kerrytown on Friday, Jan. 24, 2020. Monahan's is celebrating 40 years of business.

“I love their sashimi tuna, so I’ll try to do that once a week,” Cetinel said. “The food is incredible. The people who serve the food are excellent. It’s not just like a restaurant, but it’s a community. You feel like you’re part of a community.”

© Jenna Kieser | jkieser@mlive.com/Jenna Kieser/mlive.com/TNS Employees of Monahan's Seafood work through lunch rush in Kerrytown on Friday, Jan. 24, 2020. Monahan's is celebrating 40 years of business.

Consistent quality also stood out to Cetinel, who said food quality comes under closer scrutiny when a customer regularly eats the same meal.

“They achieved that (consistency), so that’s big for me,” he said. “Anybody who’s in Ann Arbor should definitely stop by to taste it. It’s an experience."

He recommends new customers try the sashimi tuna and a blackened salmon with caper sauce.

© Jenna Kieser | jkieser@mlive.com/Jenna Kieser/mlive.com/TNS Monahan's Seafood manager Bernie Fritzch helps a customer buy fish in Kerrytown on Friday, Jan. 24, 2020. Fritzch has worked at Monahan's for the past 30 years.

Monahan’s longest-tenured employee is Bernie Fritzch, who has been with the company for 30 years. He manages the market. Being in the food business since he was 15 years old, Fritzch worked at Zingerman’s before connecting with Monahan.

“I like the variety,” Fritzch said. “You can come in here and it’s sort of the same routine, but it’s just new people every day. You’ve got the old people that appreciate you. The fish itself is just good quality food. We’ve been together for 30 years. It’s like the first day. There’s no conflict. There’s no drama. He’s got his strengths, I’ve got mine, and we just worked together well for those years.”

© Jenna Kieser | jkieser@mlive.com/Jenna Kieser/mlive.com/TNS Monahan's Seafood owner Mike Monahan talks about the 40 years of business in Kerrytown on Friday, Jan. 24, 2020.

Beyond serving market favorites and new fish each season, fostering relationships with the community is part of the heart and soul of Monahan’s Seafood, Monahan said.

“Getting to know people like Mehmet... watching people bring their kids in, then watching the kids grow up, and watching them come in with their kids, it’s a family thing,” he said. “It’s such an emotional thing. The market here is a little microcosm of life. Everyday you come here, it’s wonderful. I can’t imagine doing anything else.”

Small-town Michigan bakery celebrates 20 years in business

Sava’s owner renovating old Dixboro farmhouse for new restaurant

1940s Dexter factory given new life with brewery, shared office space on the way

———

©2020 MLive.com, Walker, Mich.

Visit MLive.com, Walker, Mich. at www.mlive.com.

Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.