By NEIL HARTNELL

Tribune Business Editor

nhartnell@tribunemedia.net

A senior Bahamian tourism executive yesterday said the industry has suffered no impact "to-date" from the global novel coronavirus outbreak as it heads into the peak winter season.

Robert Sands, Baha Mar's senior vice-president of government and external affairs, told Tribune Business that the country's major industry was happy with the measures implemented by the government to prevent the virus from reaching these shores.

"The industry has not seen any drop-off in business to-date," Mr Sands said. "The industry is very satisfied with the level of communication to-date, and the measures the government has implemented. This world issue remains one matter that has our industry's focused attention. The Ministry of Health has been proactive in sharing information."

No novel coronavirus cases have been reported in The Bahamas. Since the outbreak in China, and its spread to other countries, The Bahamas is denying entry to non-residents who have visited China in the last 20 days regardless of their nationality. Returning residents who have been in China during this period will be quarantined and monitored for symptoms during an incubation period of 14 days.

Mr Sands' comments came after the Bahamas Hotel and Tourism Association (BHTA), the industry's main representative body, and the Ministry of Health last week collaborated to host an information seminar on the novel coronavirus for sector stakeholders.

"The meetings were very well attended by representatives of every major hotel in New Providence, with Family Island hotel representatives present," Mr Sands added. "The group was updated, and protocols were introduced and discussed."

The BHTA, in a statement, said the discussion was led by Dr Duane Sands, MP, minister of health, and top Ministry of Health officials including Marco Rolle, permanent secretary, Ministry of Health; Dr Pearl McMillan, chief medical officer; and Dr Delon Brennan, deputy chief medical officer.

Industry executives representing small, medium-sized and large hotel properties throughout The Bahamas were present to hear Dr Sands and his team present the latest facts on the coronavirus and the measures being taken by the government to protect locals and visitors.

Details were also provided on the resources deployed to monitor and screen travellers arriving via air and sea, and to provide the approved protocols for tourism stakeholders to mitigate and/or react to any perceived threat from the virus.

"This meeting was timely, highly informative and well received by industry attendees," said Carlton Russell, BHTA president. "We will continue to liaise with the Ministry of Health to ensure industry partners and members receive pertinent and timely data, including Ministry of Health sanctioned best practices, so we can align ourselves with the public sector as we continue to collaborate to protect our citizens, our staff and visitors from the coronavirus."