Kuwait International Airport has received eight cranes from Chinese engineering equipment manufacturer Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology.

The Chinese company delivered eight flat-top tower cranes T285-120V, which will be used to construct the airport’s new terminal.

These cranes mark the highest tonnage tower cranes exported by China. They will be used to construct the vast dome structure made of steel and precast concrete.

The hoisting and connecting of different parts requires fine-tuned accuracy and strong lifting capacity, the company said.

In 2016, Turkey-based Limak Construction, along with its local agent Kharafi National, won the contract to construct a new terminal worth $4.34bn at Kuwait Airport.



The first phase of the terminal will add a capacity of 13 million passengers a year, while subsequent phases will enhance the capacity to between 25 million and 50 million passengers a year.

Zoomlion customised the cranes to suit the project’s requirements. The flat-top tower crane was modified to increase the working range and added walking on load and slide on track features.

Will Heathrow’s third runway expansion be worth the financial and environmental cost? Yes, it will be worth it

No, it will not be worth it

Uncertain View Results

Loading ... Loading ...

After the delivery of the cranes, Zoomlion’s on-site engineers and spare parts warehouse provided 24-hour service to Limak.

Zoomlion Construction Hoisting Machinery Overseas Sales Company’s Ren Jie said: “The customer chose Zoomlion’s large tonnage flat-top tower crane because of its 85m-long boom, 27t boom head hoisting capacity and maximum lifting load of 120t, which is of great use when hoisting incredibly heavy, prefabricated concrete components.

“The model’s rotation accuracy and rigid boom also make it ideal in crowded construction sites.”

Last year, elevators manufacturer Otis, a subsidiary of United Technologies, secured a contract to supply 190 elevators for the second terminal.