Like us on Facebook for great stories daily!



Listen to this post:

Amidst all the stress and panic inflicted by the Wuhan epidemic, it’s encouraging to see some individuals doing the best that they can to help others.

Recently, a Malay NADMA official garnered attention online after appearing in a Facebook post by Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, as she praised the the official for speaking fluent Mandarin when calling to check up on a Malaysian family in isolation from their recent returned from Wuhan.

Pegawai NADMA yang sedang berhubung dengan waris keluarga warga Malaysia yang dibawa pulang dari Wuhan.Beliau mampu bertutur dalam Mandarin dengan baik sekali. Posted by Dr Wan Azizah Wan Ismail on Tuesday, February 4, 2020

The post was captioned, “NADMA official contacting a Malaysian family that returned from Wuhan. She’s able to speak to them in Mandarin very well.”

In the video that was shared, the official can be heard conversing effortlessly with the family, making sure they were properly attended to during their isolation period:

“There are three numbers. If there is anything you want to bring, you can just call. You’re all able to contact your brothers and sisters, right? Ok, is there anything else you want to ask?”

The post has since garnered 2,100 likes on Facebook, with 377 shares to date. Netizens flooded the comment section, complimenting the official for embracing the diversity of cultures in Malaysia:

“This shows how Malaysia has a variety of cultures so we should appreciate every value and aspect of each diverse one!”

“Congratulations and good job to the NADMA official who spoke in Mandarin fluently to help this family from Wuhan. This represents the diversity of languages in our country and how we can commit to learning them.”

Kudos to this NADMA official for bringing a glimmer of hope during a season of turmoil and distress. May we all strive to embrace the cultures of our country as she does!

Also read: Kind Volunteers Rescue Over 300 Pets After Their Owners Get Stranded Outside Of Wuhan!