Megaworld Lifestyle Malls and Lucky Chinatown bring you the country’s biggest and grandest celebration to welcome the Year of the Metal Rat right at the heart of the world’s oldest and the country’s premier Chinatown in Binondo, Manila.

A two-week-long revelry that runs from January 13 to 26 and highlighted by lucky rituals, astounding cultural presentations, electrifying live performances from the country’s top OPM performers, a grand fireworks display, plus fantastic shopping and dining deals, is set to greet revelers at Lucky Chinatown as it marks the biggest and most spectacular festival of the Chinese-Filipino community.

“It has always been our tradition to join the Chinese-Filipino community in celebrating the Chinese New Year and we always make sure that we welcome each year in the grandest way possible. As we welcome a new decade and the Year of the Metal Rat, our goal is to spread happiness and inspire everyone to fly high to new beginnings,” said Megaworld Lifestyle Malls Head Graham Coates.





The festivity begins with the Prosperity Fair at Lucky Chinatown Atrium, where shoppers can find and shop for lucky charms, Chinese delicacies, and other unique novelty items. Shoppers can also get all the luck with up to 70 percent off and other great deals at participating shops and dining establishments. And for every P2,000 receipt purchase from Jan 15 to 26, guests can also get a Lucky Ang Pao, which contains instant rewards and exciting prizes.

Foodies, meanwhile, can go on an exciting food adventure at the Meisic Street Food Market and delight in a mouthwatering array of Chinese cuisine, street food and more from Jan 15 to Feb 2. Those looking to attract luck while satisfying their tummies can visit any of Lucky Chinatown’s esteemed Chinese restaurants and feast on delicious lucky dishes to welcome the New Year.

For good fortune and a prosperous 2020, guests can take part in the traditional 8 Lucky Rituals which includes Astrological Forecasts, Fortune Bamboo and Laughing Buddhas, located at the Lucky Chinatown Walk.

On Chinese New Year Day, Jan 25 from 12NN onwards at Lucky Chinatown Atrium, kids can get a chance to meet and greet adorable Pokemons such as Pickachu and Eeve, followed by a special Astrological Forecast segment by master Johnson Chua, where guests can get to know what’s in store for them for the Year of the Metal Rat.

More colorful performances and cultural presentations from Chinese schools and Chinese – Filipino organizations alongside with a Chinese New Year Parade in partnership with Manila Chinatown Development Council, Department of Tourism, Culture and Arts of Manila, and City of Manila are set to entertain friends and families at 3:00 p.m. and will be wrapped up by a live performance of Callalily at 6:00 p.m.

To cap off the last day of Chinese New Year Celebrations at Lucky Chinatown on Jan 26, they partnered with Philippine Lapine Club for an adorable Guinea Pigs Cavy Fashion Show at 11:00 a.m. and live performance by Unique Salonga at 6:00 PM.

For more information, visit www.LuckyChinatownCNY2020.com.