The artist and businessman Gust Graas has died aged 95, it was confirmed on Wednesday. Graas was a key architect of RTL Group's development.

Graas died over Tuesday night. As well as being known for his artistic career, which a number of his works having been exhibited throughout Europe, China, and Dubai, Graas helped mould RTL as we know it today.

Gust Graas was born on 19 December 1924 in Esch-sur-Alzette and founded the Federalist Youth Movement aged 35, alongside priest Ed Kinnen. In 1951, two years later, he co-founded the youth section (CSJ) of the Christian Social People's Party of Luxembourg (CSV). As for his media and broadcast career, Graas spent almost half a century occupying different posts within the Compagnie Luxembourgeoise de Télédiffusion (CLT) after having qualified as a lawyer. He joined the Compagnie Luxembourgeoise de Radiodiffusion (CLR) on 16 March 1952, rising to become the head of Human Resources and by the end of that same year, he was appointed secretary general.

During this time, the company was focusing on its post-war economic recovery, Graas was involved in a number of projects designed to prepare the group for future challenges of an ever-transforming time period.

© Archives RTL

Former director general of CLT

Graas was a key figure for CLT, who made his mark on the company at different and crucial periods. From 1955, he experienced CLT's early days in television, ultimately becoming in charge of the general management of Télé Luxembourg by the end of the 1960s. At the same time - 1961, to be exact - he co-founded the airline Luxair and remained its president for 20 years.

The Luxembourger actively supported launching a German-language radio programme in 1957, despite reticence from the majority French shareholders. He was then vindicated by the success of Radio Luxembourg, leading Graas to push for other projects to be approved. His perseverance resulted in launched a weekly Luxembourgish-language television show in 1969: Hei Elei Kuck Elei, the precursor to the modern-day channel RTL Télé Lëtzebuerg.

In 1984, Graas was one of the primary architects behind the founding of the German-language TV Channel RTL Plus, whose launch is widely considered a landmark and historic moment for RTL Group. Graas did not limit himself to radio and audiovisual activities, but also invested in print media and production, diversifying the group's portfolio. Graas was ultimately named deputy director general of CLT on 8 November 1972 and became director general on 25 March 1975.

After his 36 years of service, he was then named honorary director general of CLT from 1989 to 1999.

Considered a visionary for the group, Graas's legacy helped enshrine the European and international reputation of CLT and ensured that the group kept its activities diversified, rather than focused on one market.

Response of Thomas Rabe, CEO of RTL Group

Thomas Rabe, CEO of RTL Group, says: "In Gust Graas we have lost a man who shaped the history and success of our Group, during a career that spanned 36 years. The fact that RTL Group has become Europe's leading audio-visual and entertainment company is also largely his personal achievement. Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, he succeeded in making CLT a strong European company and laid the foundations for its subsequent development. But despite casting his gaze far beyond Luxembourg’s borders, he managed to never lose sight of his colleagues and employees. So, whilst he will be remembered as a visionary respected and appreciated for his professionalism, his memory will also be cherished for his humanity, kindness and commitment to social causes. He was a truly great man!"

Ech drécken dem Gust Graas senger Famill mäin häerzlecht Bäileed aus. Mam Papp vum "Hei Elei, Kuck Elei", dem Virgänger vum aktuelle RTL Télé Lëtzebuerg soe mir engem Mënsch Äddi deen eist Land an eis Gesellschaft aktiv mat gepräägt huet. XB — Xavier Bettel (@Xavier_Bettel) February 19, 2020

Luxembourg's Prime Minister Xavier Bettel paid tribute to Graas on Twitter, describing Graas as a man who 'actively moulded our country and society'.