This article is for investors who would like to improve their understanding of price to earnings ratios (P/E ratios). To keep it practical, we'll show how Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank Co., Ltd.'s (HKG:3618) P/E ratio could help you assess the value on offer. Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank has a P/E ratio of 3.55, based on the last twelve months. That corresponds to an earnings yield of approximately 28.2%.

View our latest analysis for Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank

How Do You Calculate Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank's P/E Ratio?

The formula for P/E is:

Price to Earnings Ratio = Price per Share (in the reporting currency) รท Earnings per Share (EPS)

Or for Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank:

P/E of 3.55 = HK$3.54 (Note: this is the share price in the reporting currency, namely, CNY ) รท HK$1.00 (Based on the year to June 2019.)

Is A High Price-to-Earnings Ratio Good?

A higher P/E ratio implies that investors pay a higher price for the earning power of the business. That isn't necessarily good or bad, but a high P/E implies relatively high expectations of what a company can achieve in the future.

How Does Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank's P/E Ratio Compare To Its Peers?

We can get an indication of market expectations by looking at the P/E ratio. The image below shows that Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank has a lower P/E than the average (6.0) P/E for companies in the banks industry.

SEHK:3618 Price Estimation Relative to Market, January 9th 2020 More

Its relatively low P/E ratio indicates that Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank shareholders think it will struggle to do as well as other companies in its industry classification. Many investors like to buy stocks when the market is pessimistic about their prospects. You should delve deeper. I like to check if company insiders have been buying or selling.

How Growth Rates Impact P/E Ratios

P/E ratios primarily reflect market expectations around earnings growth rates. Earnings growth means that in the future the 'E' will be higher. Therefore, even if you pay a high multiple of earnings now, that multiple will become lower in the future. A lower P/E should indicate the stock is cheap relative to others -- and that may attract buyers.

Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank saw earnings per share improve by -7.0% last year. And its annual EPS growth rate over 5 years is 7.8%.

Remember: P/E Ratios Don't Consider The Balance Sheet

It's important to note that the P/E ratio considers the market capitalization, not the enterprise value. So it won't reflect the advantage of cash, or disadvantage of debt. Hypothetically, a company could reduce its future P/E ratio by spending its cash (or taking on debt) to achieve higher earnings.

Spending on growth might be good or bad a few years later, but the point is that the P/E ratio does not account for the option (or lack thereof).

How Does Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank's Debt Impact Its P/E Ratio?

Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank has net debt worth just 4.4% of its market capitalization. It would probably trade on a higher P/E ratio if it had a lot of cash, but I doubt it is having a big impact.

The Verdict On Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank's P/E Ratio

Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank's P/E is 3.5 which is below average (10.5) in the HK market. EPS grew over the last twelve months, and debt levels are quite reasonable. If growth is sustainable over the long term, then the current P/E ratio may be a sign of good value.