PETALING JAYA: Local property players are kicking off the year with higher, if not optimistic sales targets – an indication that the local property sector is bottoming out.

Sunway Bhd , at a briefing here, said it is targeting sales of RM2bil for 2020, a 30% jump from the RM1.55bil it achieved last year. The company had initially set out to achieve RM1.3bil for 2019.

Earlier this week, LBS BINA GROUP BHD had announced that it was targeting RM1.6bil in sales this year. The company targeted RM1.5bil for 2019 but achieved RM1.63bil.

Both companies attributed a large portion of its stellar performance last year to the government’s Home Ownership Campaign (HOC).

It was kicked off in January last year to address the overhang conundrum in the country. The campaign, which was initially set for just six months, was extended to a year.

A number of initiatives were announced during the period to encourage home-ownership including the exemption of stamp duties on residential units priced between RM300,000 and RM1mil.

Yesterday, Housing and Local Government Minister Zuraida Kamaruddin said the HOC had exceeded the ministry’s expectation, with a total of 31,415 units being sold under the campaign.

She said total sales value generated under the HOC was RM19.8bil, significantly more than the initial target of between RM15bil and RM17bil.

Meanwhile, the KL Property Index (made up of the listed shares of property companies), which hit a 10-year low in October, has risen more than 10%.

At the briefing yesterday, Sunway property division managing director Sarena Cheah said there is still inherent demand for properties.

“Looking at the location and product that we have, we’re quite confident. It’s important to understand the market and position ourselves accordingly.

“Looking at the encouraging response that we had last year, there is still inherent demand, ” she said.

On Monday, LBS Bina group managing director Tan Sri Lim Hock San said 2020 is expected to be a “good yet challenging year, ” and would focus on landed residential units as opposed to highrise units.

Cheah said Sunway would also be offering attractive financing schemes and promotions to boost its sales this year.

She pointed out that all of the group’s launches will be within integrated developments or transit-linked, in line with the continued resilient demand that the company is seeing from purchasers for properties that are connected.





“Our new landbanking efforts will also be in tandem.

“We will continue to deliver lifelong value to homebuyers by developing homes that are connected and strategically-located, as well as

priced within the RM600,000 to RM800,000 range.”

Cheah said Sunway’s commercial launches, which constitute 30% of its total launches for the year, would be within integrated developments.

In a report late last year, Knight Frank Malaysia managing director Sarkunan Subramaniam said more developers are likely to build based on need this year.

In his presentation entitled Peering into 2020: Market Outlook, he said: “Transitoriented developments (TODs) with the right pricing will continue to be sought after by the purchasers.

A TOD is often defined as a mixed development typically within a 400m radius of a transit station or any public transport network.

Cheah said Sunway would be launching RM3.5bil worth of properties this year.

Of this, RM1bil will be in Malaysia and RM2.4bil in Singapore, in line with the company’s geographical diversification.

“Some projects in Singapore that we were supposed to launch last year, have been deferred to 2020, ” she said.

Sunway’s upcoming launches in Singapore are Parc Canberra, Canberra Link (executive condominiums), Ki Residence, Clementi (private condominiums) and Park Avenue Residences, Tampines (executive condominiums.

Sunway acquired 6.85 acres of land in Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, in China last year.

To date, the developer has delivered RM990mil worth of properties within the integrated 110-acre development, which is a collaborative agreement between the governments of China and Singapore.

Cheah said Sunway is also pursuing opportunities in student accommodation and developments in Australia.

Sunway’s unbilled sales currently stands at RM2.8bil.

As at Dec 31,2019, Sunway Property has 3,362 acres in land bank with gross development value of RM59bil and total development period of up to 15 years.