Sign up to FREE email alerts from NorthWalesLive - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

A private school in North Wales is to stay open over next week’s half-term and the Easter holidays to protect its pupils from the coronavirus.

Staff at Myddelton College, in Denbigh, have cancelled their own holiday plans to ensure that the students from China, where the death toll from the virus this week passed 1,000, can stay.

They include headmaster Andrew Allman who had been due to go away with his family to New York at Easter to celebrate his birthday.

Chinese students at the school are also relieved and Martin Wong, 17, from Macau, said: “I really appreciate the school taking this decision because it means we can stay here with our friends and we have the staff here to support us, because we wouldn’t be able to do that if we had to stay with our guardians.

“We have been worried about the situation in China but now my parents minds are at ease knowing I’m safe and being supported by the school and not at risk of contracting the virus.”

Albert Gao, 18, said: “Normally we would go home to China for the holidays but the school has arranged a full list of activities and tutorials and our parents are very relieved.

“With the speed at which the virus has been escalating, for us to be able to remain at the school and remove the risks associated with travelling to and from our home country provides us with great comfort.”

Anna Zhang, 18, said: “We know our parents have been worried about the situation in China and how it would affect us if we had to go back and we are extremely thankful that we are able to stay on here with our friends.”

Mr Allman said the school had taken the step to ensure the health of all its pupils, and to reassure parents.

The move also aims to make sure there is no disruption for Year 11 and Year 13 students, who are due to take GCSE and A-level equivalent exams this summer.

Earlier this week, North Wales Live revealed how other private schools including Rydal Penrhos in Colwyn Bay, St David's College in Llandudno and Ruthin School were taking similar measures.

(Image: Daily Post Wales)

Mr Allman said: “The welfare of our students is paramount and all 40 of those from China are staying on with us at the school for half-term and the Easter holidays from March 27 to April 20.

“I and a number of staff have cancelled holidays so that we can be here for them and be available to reach out and support them at this difficult time, which naturally includes those who have important exams coming up in the summer.

“We consider a safe option is for all of our students to stay here with their friends and be able to access resources of the school available to them, including the opportunity to speak to trained pastoral professionals. This also takes into consideration support that the students are able to receive for their emotional needs.

“In addition to our academic provision we have scheduled activities for them including a number of trips to places such as Lake District, Snowdonia, Portmeirion and Anglesey.

“The reaction of the parents has been twofold because naturally parents of British-based children were concerned about students returning from China after the holidays.

(Image: Daily Post Wales)

“They have been reassured and so have the parents of children from China who will now remain here and in the case of those taking exams not face disruption to their future plans.

“For them that includes gaining entry to universities like Edinburgh, Durham, Queen Mary’s University in London, Nottingham and Warwick.”