Geniecast, The Virtual Experience Company, has access to thousands of experts who provide insight and intelligence to businesses every day. With the rise of the coronavirus from China and its global spread, they’ve reviewed their roster to find the experts who can bring their considerable knowledge and experience to bear for companies working to navigate the coronavirus event.

There are certainly more questions than answers around coronavirus and its impacts, but most of the information that is available is generalized for public consumption and features the most common denominators. Geniecast, however, is ready right now with renowned experts who can answer questions specific to any organization’s needs and the needs of its people:

Dr. Marc Milstein is a coronavirus expert who is available for real-time, real-world conversations on unique elements of this virus, the odds of contracting it, and separating the hype from reality.

Dr. Darria Long Gillespie is a prominent Yale- and Harvard-trained ER physician who personalizes her expertise for audiences of all sizes and has already appeared on the HLN network to talk about coronavirus.

Dr. Joel Selanikio is a CDC outbreak investigator and lead physician at an Ebola clinic. Few people understand and can communicate the global impact of an event like coronavirus better.

Jason Schenker is an expert financial markets forecaster who can discuss industry and business intelligence and answer questions about any ongoing economic impact resulting from coronavirus.

Coronavirus expertise specific to any business’s needs is only possible from a real conversation with an expert, not a lecture from one. And that conversation is literally a phone call away with Geniecast. Learn more at https://geniecast.com/coronavirus.

Geniecast provides engagement with experts, celebrities, thought leaders, and speakers delivered via real-time experiences and dialogues. As “The Virtual Experience Company,” Geniecast makes high-quality content accessible and affordable, elevates events, brings brands to life, and wows audiences with dazzling augmented, virtual, and mixed reality experiences not found anywhere else.

To learn more about Geniecast, please visit https://geniecast.com/.