Sign up to FREE email alerts from Liverpool Echo - daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

The last coronavirus evacuees quarantined in Arrowe Park Hospital have been released with a clean bill of health.

The final 10 British nationals evacuated from Wuhan, the Chinese city at the epicentre of the new viral outbreak, are the last of 93 people who had been housed in a staff accommodation block under supervision of specialist NHS staff.

The first 83 arrived on Thursday January 30, with the second group arriving on Sunday February 2 for two week isolation periods.

In other good news, NHS England announced eight of the nine patients in the UK who have tested positive for the disease have been released from hospital.

Today Professor Keith Willett, NHS strategic incident director, said: "The last guests have left Arrowe Park hospital and I would once again like to thank them for the calm, patient and responsible way that they have responded to what must have been a trying situation.

(Image: PA)

"Over the coming weeks many more of us may need to spend some time at home to reduce the spread of the virus and they have set a great example.

"I would like to thank all those NHS staff and partners, as well as Public Health England, who have worked so hard to make their stay as comfortable as possible, those still caring for guests in Milton Keynes and all the doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals who have successfully treated patients at other hospitals.

"We must not forget the local residents, council staff, volunteers and numerous others who have rallied round to help our guests in their time of need. Thank you all."

More than 100 people remain at the Kents Hill Park Hotel in Milton Keynes, but there have so far been no further positive tests.

Health Secretary Matt Hancock said: "I am also pleased that eight of the nine individuals who tested positive for coronavirus have now been successfully treated and discharged from hospital.

(Image: PA)

"Again, this is evidence of how well prepared our NHS is to deal with the Wuhan coronavirus.

"I want to stress that any individuals who are discharged from hospital are now well and do not pose any public health risk to the public."

Dr William Welfare, interim deputy director of health protection at Public Health England North West, said: "Today marks the end of an intense and difficult time for those who have been staying at Arrowe Park and everyone involved in their care would like to thank them for their patience, resilience and support during the past two weeks.

"As with the first group of guests, all test results have come back negative for this novel coronavirus and we can once again be assured that no one leaving today poses any risk to the wider public...

"It is heartening to see how we have supported each other in the care of all the guests and brought such a pleasing resolution to what was a special set of circumstances.

"Finally I would like to thank the wider community here in the Wirral who have inspired us all with their hospitality, kindness and patience – they have made not just our guests feel welcome but everyone from across the country who has been involved in their care."

The total number of confirmed cases globally now stands at more than 67,000.

As of 2pm today (February 15), a total of 2,992 people have been tested for coronavirus, with all but nine coming back negative.

In France, an 80-year-old woman visiting as a tourist from China became the first patient in Europe to die from the virus today.