Jeffery Talbert has been superintendent of Alliance City Schools since 2013.

ALLIANCE Jeffery Talbert was given a new five-year contract to remain superintendent of Alliance City School District.

Alliance’s Board of Education voted Tuesday to give Talbert a new contract that will take effect Aug. 1, 2021. Under the new contract, Talbert’s base salary will be $162,871 during the first year. He is to receive a 2% pay increase for each of the subsequent years.

"We expect him to keep doing his job and doing it well, and moving us forward," said school board member Elayne Dunlap.

Talbert, 49, has been superintendent of Alliance City Schools since 2013. Prior to that he had been assistant superintendent of the Cleveland Heights-University Heights City School District.

The new contract was approved during Tuesday’s reorganizational meeting. After the meeting, Talbert expressed his commitment to remaining with Alliance City Schools.

"I believe that Alliance has the ingredients to do what hasn’t been done in a lot of urban (school) districts," Talbert said. "We have a staff that really cares. We have a community that not only says they want good schools, but supports it."

Talbert also expressed appreciation for the relationship the school system has with the University of Mount Union, which he said has been supportive in providing scholarships for Alliance High School graduates.

"We have a university partner that is really sincere about working with our staff," he said.

A graduate of the University of Muskingum, Talbert has a history with the Canton City School System. He is a former principal of McKinley High School.

Talbert was a finalist in 2019 during the Canton City Board of Education’s search for a new superintendent. Alliance’s School Board offered Talbert a $20,000 bonus as an incentive to remain with its school system.

"I have received unwavering support from the Alliance administration, staff and community in the years I have been here," Talbert said in a written statement. "I look forward to being able to continue my work with Alliance City Schools and the Alliance community for the years to come."

Reach Malcolm at 330-580-8305

or malcolm.hall@cantonrep.com

On Twitter: mhallREP