29 January 2020 , —

Defer all travel to Chibi, Dangyang, Ezhou, Huanggang, Huangshi, Jingmen, Jingzhou, Qianjiang, Suizhou, Wuhan, Xianning, Xiantao, Xiaogan, Yichang and Zhijiang cities, and Enshi prefecture, including Lichuan city (all Hubei province), until further notice.



The authorities have suspended all public transport facilities in the aforementioned cities of Hubei including intercity buses, subway and ferries, to stop the spread of the virus. Since 26 January, long-distance shuttle buses to and from the capital Beijing and Shanghai city have also been suspended. There is no information available about how long the suspensions will last.



There continues to be a rapid rise in the number of confirmed cases in mainland China, and ongoing exported cases to new countries, as well as those that have already reported them. In addition, locations outside Mainland China, including Germany, Japan and Taiwan have reported locally-acquired infection from travellers from China. Some authorities such as the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have advised their citizens against all non-essential travel to China.

International SOS is monitoring this fast changing situation closely.

For more information, click here. Pandemic Information clients should log in to the portal.

Notes to Editors



About the International SOS Group of Companies





The International SOS Group of Companies is in the business of saving lives, protecting your global workforce from health and security threats. Wherever you are, we deliver customised health, security risk management and wellbeing solutions to fuel your growth and productivity. In the event of extreme weather, an epidemic or a security incident, we provide an immediate response providing peace of mind. Our innovative technology and medical expertise focus on prevention, offering real-time, actionable insights and on-the-ground quality delivery. We help you meet compliance reporting needs for good governance. By partnering with us, organisations can fulfil their Duty of Care responsibilities, while empowering business resilience, continuity and sustainability.



Founded in 1985, the International SOS Group is trusted by 11,000 organisations, including over half of the Fortune Global 500, multi-national corporate clients and mid-size enterprises, governments, educational institutions and NGOs. 11,000 multi-cultural medical, security and logistics experts stand with you to provide support & assistance from over 1,000 locations in 90 countries, 24/7, 365 days.



To protect your workforce, visit www.internationalsos.com.