Source: Xinhua| 2020-01-18 09:27:26|Editor: Lu Hui

Video Player Close

MADRID, Jan. 17 (Xinhua) -- Former Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said on Friday that if he had to "choose one nation to have a privileged relationship with, it would be China."

The man who governed Spain between 2004 and 2011 made the remarks at a meeting with representatives from Chinese media, in which he stressed the need for multinationalism, international cooperation, understanding and peace.

He began by welcoming Wednesday's signing of the phase-one economic and trade agreement between China and the United States.

"It is very good news and I congratulate both countries," said Zapatero, adding trade war was "negative for the growth of the global economy and it would be a serious mistake, if, in this historic time, we returned to protectionism."

He said that although the China-U.S. agreement was obviously "bilateral," he hoped it would help "recover multilateralism in trade," because "trade is vital for all of the world economy."

Reflecting on the rise of nationalism around the world, Zapatero said it has led to "an atmosphere of difficulty, of few accords, more conflict," noting that China could help stop the isolationist tide as "it is the most important emerging nation and its defense of multinationalism is essential."

"We have to strengthen the United Nations, we need to strengthen the international organizations for peace and cooperation and the respect of sovereignty ... I ask the Americans to understand that China is a great country and it will benefit the world and the U.S. to have a strong developed China defending multinationalism," he said.

"Where there is an economic and commercial relationship and sharing of technology, there is understanding and not conflict," said Zapatero.

Zapatero also highlighted the longstanding friendship between Spain and China, saying the two sides have also worked in close cooperation defending multilateralism, upholding the principle of peaceful settlement of conflicts, and promoting inclusive social growth, among others.

He expressed admiration over China's achievements in the past 40 years, especially its anti-poverty campaign that saw some 700 million people out of poverty.

In terms of economy, there is "a lot of room for growth" in the relationship, he said. "We need to take more Spanish investment to China and have more Chinese investment in Spain," he said.

He also made a call for more Chinese tourists to visit his country, saying they would be welcomed with "affection."

"I hope the new Spanish government has a great relationship with China," he said.