KUALA LUMPUR: The Yang di-Pertuan Agong has called on Malaysians to give priority to their safety and health, following the spread of the novel coronavirus to several countries including Malaysia.

Al-Sultan Abdullah Ri’ayatuddin Al-Mustafa Billah Shah and Raja Permaisuri Agong Tunku Hajah Azizah Aminah Maimunah Iskandriah, who expressed concern over the detection of four cases in Malaysia, said those living or travelling to areas currently experiencing cases of the virus should take precaution and comply with directives issued by the local authorities.

Comptroller of the Royal Family and Household Datuk Ahmad Fadil Shamsuddin said Their Majesties urged people to better understand the epidemic and to follow advice and preventive measures outlined by the Health Ministry.

“This includes maintaining a high level of hygiene – frequently washing hands with water and soap, using hand sanitisers and to always be equipped with face masks, ” he said in a statement yesterday.

Ahmad Fadil said the royal couple also encouraged the public to keep abreast with news on the outbreak, by reading the latest information distributed by the ministry through various channels.

Sultan Abdullah also advised Malaysians to refer to the Health and Foreign Affairs ministries of the latest decision by China on Jan 23, to extend the suspension of outbound travel to seven other cities, besides Wuhan in Hubei province.

The cities are Huanggang, Ezhou, Chibi, Xiantao, Qianjiang, Zhijiang and Lichuan.

Their Majesties also expressed their appreciation for the prompt action and continuous monitoring by the Health Ministries of Malaysia and Singapore as well as the World Health Organisation in ensuring that prevention measures were effectively implemented.

Sultan Abdullah and Tunku Azizah also lauded the Foreign Ministry and Malaysian Embassy in Beijing for setting up an Emergency Response Team to reach out to Malaysians in affected areas, singling out diplomatic missions in Guangzhou, Hong Kong, Kunming, Nanning, Shanghai and Xi’an as well as the Malaysian Friendship and Trade Centre in Taipei.

Ahmad Fadil said Sultan Abdullah also expressed hope that the country’s Rapid Response Team and Rapid Assessment Team would be strengthened to conduct contact tracking and screening of international flight passengers at all Malaysian airports.

Their Majesties also regretted the actions of several irresponsible parties who issued false statements, which were later made viral by others, without checking the facts.

Ahmad Fadil said Their Majesties hoped that every Malaysian would avoid unnecessary panic or disturbing the peace by spreading information that has not been verified or was likely to spark controversy. — Bernama