As US President Donald Trump prepares to sign a phase one trade deal with China on Wednesday morning, trade experts see it as more of a political document than an economic road map with little chance it will inspire a meaningful phase two agreement any time soon.

But despite the scepticism, the accord hits the pause button on the turmoil, threats and mercurial negotiating that have characterised US-China trade relations over the past 18 months, they add.

As outlined, the deal promises to increase Chinese purchases of American goods and bolster intellectual property protection in return for lowered tariffs on Chinese goods entering the US.

“The president likes pomp and circumstance in cases where he has something to boast about and I think, from his standpoint, he has something to brag about,” said Derek Scissors, resident scholar at the conservative American Enterprise Institute, who was recently briefed on the trade deal by administration officials he declined to identify.

“He can say I’m the only one who can get China to the table, that I forced China into making concessions … and now the Dems can’t touch me on this,” he added, referring to the Democratic Party.

In a further sign of detente before the signing, the US Treasury Department on Monday removed China from a list of countries that it claims manipulate their currencies to gain an unfair trade advantage. The reversal drew criticism from some lawmakers.

“China is a currency manipulator – that is a fact,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, a Democrat from New York, said in a tweet. “Unfortunately, President Trump would rather cave to President Xi than stay tough on China.”

Seen through the political lens Trump tends to favour, there’s little upside to further increasing or decreasing the pressure on Beijing near term as he juggles impeachment, a lingering Middle East crisis, efforts to pass a US-Canada-Mexico trade deal and his re-election campaign.

Declaring victory, signing a deal and moving on affords him several advantages, analysts said. It blunts criticism from political rivals that his trade policy has hurt average Americans, despite strong economic evidence that it does. It lets him argue that his China tariff strategy has worked. It throws a bone to long-suffering Midwestern farmers facing mounting bankruptcies and debt who are important to his re-election bid.

And it allows him to make the argument with manufacturing workers – a weak link politically as factory employment, new orders and inventory decline sharply – that he is a great deal maker who keeps his word and is in their corner.

Perhaps most important, the deal blunts potential economic damage that could unsettle financial markets moving toward November. Voters have short memories, and he wants to start racking up perceived wins they will remember as election day approaches.

“Unfortunately, President Trump would rather cave to President Xi than stay tough on China,” says Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York. Photo: AP More

That leaves Trump with neither the bandwidth, attention span nor willing partner to tackle a meaningful phase two agreement involving complex structural issues. These include reforming China’s state-led economy, prying open its services markets and tackling the myriad ways Beijing impedes foreign companies in its massive market.

“The phase one agreement will be the high-water mark for the Trump administration’s trade diplomacy vis-à-vis China during his first term, and perhaps for years afterward,” said Jeff Moon, president of the China Moon Strategies consultancy and a former official in the Office of the US Trade Representative and the National Security Council. “There will be discussions about a phase two agreement that will never be concluded.”

According to Moon, Trump uses a five-chapter playbook: take credit, exaggerate achievements, satisfy key stakeholders, divert attention and delay accountability.