The number of passengers traveling through the Akron-Canton Airport again dropped in 2019. But CAK president and CEO Ren Camacho is confident the Green airport will rebound and sees 2020 as a pivotal year, he said in an interview on Thursday, Jan. 23.

According to figures provided to Crain's by CAK, 834,365 passengers traveled through the airport in 2019, down 9.7% from 923,802 in 2018.

Last year's decrease is another in a steady slide in passengers at the airport. In the past five years, CAK has seen a 44% drop, from about 1.5 million travelers in 2015, statistics show.

Camacho said, however, that 2019's numbers were close to the airport's projections, though falling just below them.

"We were expecting a drop. We were roughly looking (at being) a little shy of 900,000 (passengers). … It's a little more than expected," he said.

Airport officials anticipated the drop after having multiple discussions with carriers and business customers, and looking at business travel statistics, Camacho said. With the trade war and certain travel restrictions, some companies had anticipated less travel, he noted.

That's significant to an airport whose clientele is 60% business travelers, a number Camacho cited.

Plus, the ripple effects from airline consolidation continue to play a part.

"There are less flights, fewer seats, fewer airlines to go after. A lot of the airlines focus on their hub locations," he said.

Still, Camacho and the airport are looking ahead and hopeful about prospects in 2020.

"We're excited about 2020. We're optimistic," he said.

It's a big year, with the airport set to complete its $34 million gate modernization and expansion project in the fall. The project includes a two-level, 41,600-square-foot concourse.

"The No. 1 priority (of 2020) is to ensure the gate modernization project is completed," Camacho said.

That's because the project will be key to not only helping to lure passengers, but also could help attract carriers with new and improved gates and facilities.

"This project is essential for the airport and the region," he said, adding that his predecessor, Rick McQueen, was instrumental in highlighting the importance of the project.

The gate modernization is part of CAK's 10-year, $110 million improvement campaign that saw a runway extension, ticketing wing renovations, the addition of a covered parking lot and an improved entrance road, among other things. Camacho said those projects were imperative to help position the airport, whose original gates were built in 1962, for growth.

CAK also is looking at creative ways to generate revenue, he added, especially "non-aeronautical revenue," such as parking, restaurants, food options (Royal Docks Brewing Co. opened at CAK last fall) and the like.

"We want the airport to be a place where people can go and congregate," he said.

Also important is working with the business and civic communities to ensure the airport's success, Camacho said.

In fact, on Friday, Jan. 24, Camacho presented a five-year strategic plan to local civic leaders, chamber officials and economic development officials. The plan looks at how these entities can work together to promote the area, including assets that surround the airport, such as industrial parks, the Fannie May chocolate factory and the MAPS Air Museum.

"We are showcasing the airport as a catalyst for economic development for the region," he said.

Camacho and his crew are eager to build on some of the successes they saw last year. United Airlines' route to Houston, which started in 2018, saw an upgauge to a larger aircraft in April 2019, an airport spokesman said. American Airlines' flights to Charlotte and Delta's flights to Atlanta both saw upgauges, too.

In March, CAK will add a new business-class option to American's service to New York LaGuardia Airport.

Camacho said United's recent decision to drop service from Cleveland Hopkins International Airport to LaGuardia and Reagan National Airport in Washington, D.C., presents an opportunity for CAK, which has carriers flying nonstop to those destinations.

Also on Camacho's to-do list: Continue to work with a coalition of Ohio airports to lobby for legislation in the next budget cycle to get the state to earmark dollars to help airports attract new flights, including international ones.

Airports in neighboring states already have that funding, he noted, adding that without a state air incentive program, "we're at an immediate disadvantage."

Ohio's airports worked with the Ohio Aviation Association to make a pitch to try to secure $15 million in the state budget for such an endeavor, but the Ohio Legislature passed on it in June. Camacho said he and his state colleagues haven't given up and are looking at the next state budget session in two years.

"We will continue the fight. It will definitely continue to be on radar here at Akron-Canton," he said.