The long holiday will see bars, clubs, and restaurants closed all over, so have a journey out into the drier parts of Beijing. Here's our list of this week's Events That Won't Leave You Hungover.

Tuesday, Jan 21

All-You-Can-Eat Sushi, Tempura, and Teriyaki

Wanting a fresh start to the new year? Honzen's all-you-can-eat lunch promotions, Tuesday and Friday, feature life-rejuvenating salad, sashimi, sushi, and fresh handmade rolls, as well as main courses such as teriyaki chicken and salmon, and a variety of savory grilled fish. RMB 238. Tue and Fri, 11.30am-2pm. Honzen, Kempinski Hotel

Wednesday, Jan 22

Fruityspace Screening - 'Dunhuang'

Join Fruityspace on Wednesday for a screening of the Japanese film Dunhuang (in English - The Silk Road). Set during the Northern Song Dynasty, the film follows a discouraged scholar who rescues a Uighur princess. It is adapted from the novel by eminent Japanese writer Inoue Yasushi and won Best Director (Junya Satō) at the 1988 Japan Academy Film Prize. Free. 8pm. Fruityspace

Thursday, Jan 23

WAB Cofounder Michael Crook: Six Generations of One Family in China

Join teacher, translator and WAB co-founder Michael Crook (pictured left above) for this Beijing International Society talk on the remarkable story of his family’s six-generation history in China. Crook’s mother, Isabel (pictured second from left), now 104, was awarded the Friendship Medal by President Xi Jinping after having lived as an anthropologist and academician in China since 1940. Check out our 2017 interview with Isabel by clicking here. The talk will tell the Crook family history through words and photos. 7.30pm. Embassy of the Czech Republic

Friday, Jan 24

Spring Festival Eve Celebration With Cultural Keys

Spring Festival is a time to spend with family and friends, but what if you're new to the city and don't have anyone to feed you till you slump? Have no fear as Cultural Keys invite you to celebrate this Chinese New Year’s Eve together making dumplings as well as practicing your calligraphy to make New Year couplets RMB 488 (morning session), RMB 588 (evening session). 9am-3pm; 3-9pm. Cultural Keys Chinese Culture Center, Tongzhou

Saturday, Jan 25

The Mystery of the Dragon Bones Scavenger Hunt

Join Beijing Postcards for this special Chinese New Year’s scavenger hunt based around the story of Wang Yirong’s discovery of "dragon bones" in a Beijing pharmacy in 1899, which upon close inspection, turned out to be engraved with the earliest documented Chinese characters – around 3,000 years old. Ever since, scholars have attempted to break the riddles these ancient bones contain, and now it's your turn. RMB 300, RMB 150 (children). 1.30-4.30pm. Beijing Postcards

Sunday, Jan 26

Visit Longqingxia Ice Festival and Tang Dynasty Caves

Travel to Yanqing County this Sunday for a stroll around these interconnected Tang dynasty caves. Considered an easy walk, attendees will eat dinner out in the countryside before heading for the Longqingxia Ice Festival (also pictured at top), where you can feast your eyes on ice sculptures, lanterns, and disco lights galore – think Harbin Festival but closer and definitely not as cold! RMB 500, RMB 450 (members), RMB 250 (children). Liangmaqiao Subway (11am departure), Lido Metropark Hotel Starbucks (11.30am departure)

READ: Eat Yourself Stupid With These Special CNY Dinners

Images courtesy of the organizers, Alchetron