Billerica Council On Aging is located at 25 Concord Road. For information, call 978-671-0916 or visit https://town.billerica.ma.us/136/Council-on-Aging.

THE BILLERICA COUNCIL ON AGING (BCOA): Area Leader in Aging Services, located in the center of town at 25 Concord Road since 2004. OUR ENDURING MISSION IS to HELP local seniors remain in the community for as long as possible with the supports they need to lead full lives.

NEW EXERCISE FOR GOOD HEALTH: Our exercise program regime, “Exercise for Good Health,” addresses Aerobic Fitness, Strength Training, Core Exercise, Balance Training, Flexibility and Stretching. Monday and Wednesday classes are at 9:15 a.m. Fee is $3 each class. Also, on Monday is Chair Aerobics at 10:30 a.m. — this class is free. Brain & Balance at 1 p.m. — class is free. Tuesday: Cardio Boost & Conditioning is at 11:45 a.m. — class is free. Wednesday: Yoga at 10:30 a.m. — class is $4 per person.

BCOA – GIFT SHOP: OUR GIFT SHOP DURING THE HOLIDAYS ABOUNDS WITH GREAT FINDS AT AMAZING PRICES. THERE IS SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE — dinner ware, ornaments, cards — 5/$1, costume and fine jewelry, handbags, scarfs, and so much more. Come shop Monday to Friday 8:30 a.m.-3:45 p.m., and Saturdays 9 a.m.-12:45 p.m. While shopping make a friend, pick up a great holiday recipe, get tips on great restaurants and more.

BCOA Outreach: During the winter months families struggle to find solutions to a number of needs. ONE CALL is all it takes to reach caring folks who are a fountain of information on all topics aging and family caregiving - housing, fuel assistance, food insecurity, transportation, income tax preparation, and more. If you’re a Billerica resident, 60 years of age or older and need assistance, call 978-671-0916 and ask for Outreach.

BCOA Winter Weather Reminder: If Billerica schools are closed because of weather, the BCOA is also closed for all activities. If Billerica schools are delayed because of weather, the BCOA opening time will also be delayed. The closure and delayed openings also apply to transportation services provided by the BCOA, 25 Concord Road, 978-671-0916.

Vet to Vet Café Calling all Veterans: Join Veterans’ Director Joe Ruggiero and the BCOA on Tuesday, Feb. 25. The Café is hosted the last Tuesday of each month from 9-11 a.m. Come by to talk to each other, share stories, or simply enjoy the refreshments. Joe Ruggiero will also have a private space at the BCOA during this time in case a veteran wishes to discuss a personal matter.

BCOA- Walk with us Year-Round: Join the Walking Wonders group that meets each weekday at the BCOA at 8:45 a.m. and begin their walk at 9 a.m. During bad weather, check with our front desk at 978-671-0916 if they are walking. Walking may be the best form of physical exercise for seniors. Packed with health benefits, walking has all of the hallmarks of senior-friendly physical exercise: it can be performed at low or moderate intensity, it’s easy on joints, it has a low risk of injury, and it’s easy to get started.

Stained Glass with Bob Cory: Feb. 21 at 9:30 a.m. Have you been awed and amazed by the beauty of stained-glass windows? Bob Cory, a Billerica resident who has been creating stained glass windows for almost 40 years will demonstrate how they are made. Bob’s makes custom stained-glass windows for homes, public buildings, and sells finished pieces at craft shows throughout the northeast. Sign up at the Front Desk or call 978-671-0916 to register by Wednesday, Feb. 19.

Senior Whole Health Diabetes Workshop: Tuesday, Feb. 25, at 11 a.m. Senior Whole Health Nurse, Quyen Vu, RN, BSN, will be doing a presentation on Understanding Diabetes. This educational workshop will include: What is diabetes? Signs and Symptoms of Diabetes. What happens when it is not controlled? Things you can do to manage Diabetes. Sign up at the Front Desk or call 978-671-0916 by Friday, Feb. 21.

BCOA Book Club: The Book Club facilitated by Lizzie Meier will meet at the Library, Tuesday, Feb. 25, at 12:30 p.m. and talk about “The Underground Railroad,” by Colson Whitehead. The Book Club meeting in March will discuss “Hey Kiddo,” by Jarrett J. Krosoczka.

BCOA’s Choral Group Needs Your Voices: Thursdays at 1 p.m. The BCOAs choral group, “Forever Young” needs you. Joanne Gagliardi is now leading the group and is looking for new voices to join. The group now meets on Thursdays at 1 p.m. Show up! Join in! Or, stop by to find out more about the group!

BCOA- Tai Chi/Qigong - FREE: Tuesdays at 10:15 a.m. Help fight stress and relax with a revitalizing class of Chinese Meditation in motion! Class led by Joanne Shaughnessy. Sign up at the Front Desk the day of class.

BCOA - Evening Ceramics: Led by our gifted instructor, Carol Turgeon. Wednesdays from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Each class is $6, paid at the time of the class. Light snack provided. Call 978-671-0916 to register.

Watercolor Paint Class: A NEW Watercolor Paint class with Colleen Sgroi starts Monday, March 2, and continues for six weeks. Cost is $66 for the six-week class. If interested, sign up at the BCOA Front Desk. Transportation is available to this class at cost. Call John to schedule, 978 671-0916, ext. 2003. This program is supported in part by a grant from the Billerica Cultural Council, a local agency which is supported by the MA Cultural Council, a state agency.

BCOA Billerica Bandstand is BACK: March 9 at 11:30 a.m. Come and enjoy in the food, fun and dancing to the tunes of DJ Jon Mansfield. Tickets are sold at the BCOA Front Desk. For information, call 978-671-0916. The theme is Saint Patrick’s Day so wear your green!

BCOA Trip to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day: Join the BCOA and Best of Times Travel to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day at Venus De Milo, Swansea, on Thursday, March 12. Tenor, Emmett Cahill, will perform with The Emerald String Quartet and the Dublin City Dancers. Plated luncheon and dessert. Price is $102 and includes transportation, lunch, meal tax, ALL gratuities and show ticket. Sign up at the BCOA Front Desk by March 2.

Senior Charlie Card Day: 1-2:30 p.m. March 24. The Senior Charlie Card provides discounted rates on all MBTA transportation services. Billerica residents 65 or older are encouraged to attend. You will need to bring a valid, state-issued photo ID that includes date of birth.

BCOA Trip: April 28 to see the The Corvettes DOO WOP Revue at Lake Pearl, Wrentham. Listen to music of the 1950s Doo Wop era. Transportation, lunch and performance all for $99. Sign up at the Front Desk by April 17.

Bereavement Support Group: Please join us the second and fourth Wednesday of the month from noon to 1:30 p.m. for a group designed to help you as you journey through the grieving process following the loss of your loved one. This program offers participants opportunities to understand the uniqueness of grief, learn that grief is a process that one must go through, develop ways to take care of yourself, both emotionally and physically, and to meet others who have experienced the loss of a loved one. The group is co-sponsored by Merrimack Valley Hospice and Billerica Council on Aging. Please register with Susan Bailey 978-552-4200 if you are new to the group. Susan Bailey, Masters in Divinity, Bereavement Counselor of Merrimack Valley Hospice, Chaplain.