CLOSE

In celebration of the Lunar New Year, the Chinese Restaurant Association hosted a lunch Saturday for hundreds of people experiencing homelessness in downtown Phoenix.

The 2020 Chinese new year starts Jan. 25, which marks the beginning of the year 4718, the Year of the Rat, and the beginning of China's 15-day Spring Festival.

The association partnered with Central Arizona Shelter Services and St. Vincent de Paul to feed Chinese food to about 700 people on Saturday, which marked the group's 13th year hosting the lunch, said Garry Ong, senior adviser for the association.

"In the Chinese new year, we share the goodness of the new year, and by helping the less fortunate, we feel that we give back to the community and maybe help them start a new life," Ong said.

The lunch was hosted at the Human Services Campus near 15th Avenue and Jefferson Street and included music and a dragon dance performance. The plates of food included chicken, pork, rice and egg rolls.

David Kizziar, who has stayed at CASS' downtown Phoenix shelter and enjoyed a few meals at the neighboring St. Vincent de Paul's dining room, said his spirits were lifted Saturday because of the association's lunch.

Until two weeks ago, Kizziar said he operated a woodwork shop out of a building he leased in Phoenix for 15 years. He was told late last year he couldn't renew his lease and had to move out of the building by the beginning of the new year, which ultimately left him jobless and without a place to live, he said.

"There are people that one day could be living in a luxury apartment, have a $50-$100,000 job, and a month or two later, they're here," Kizziar said. "It can happen to anyone."

For more stories that matter: Click here to subscribe to azcentral.com

Reach the reporter at chelsea.curtis@arizonarepublic.com or follow her on Twitter @curtis_chels.

Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral today.

Read or Share this story: https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/local/phoenix/2020/01/18/hundreds-homeless-fed-phoenix-honor-lunar-new-year/4512914002/