China is “actively synergizing” its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) with President Rodrigo Duterte’s flagship “Build, Build, Build” program to bring more benefits to the Filipino people.

Chinese Ambassador Huang Xilian pointed this out Wednesday as he wished for a greater development and sustained growth in the bilateral ties between the Philippines and China which marked their 45th year this year.

During his remarks at the Chinese New Year reception in Makati City, Huang stressed the very good ties between Beijing and Manila under the administration of President Duterte.

The Chinese diplomat cited the two meetings held in 2019, where Duterte and Chinese President Xi Jinping talked about the strategic course for a steady growth of the China-Philippines relationship, as an evidence of the continuous strengthening of the bilateral relations.

Aside from that, Huang said that China has been “actively synergizing” the BRI with the Philippines’ “Build, Build, Build” program to bring “more tangible benefits” for the Filipino people.

He said that China has also become the Philippines’ number one trading partner, the second-largest source of tourists — citing more than 1.5 million Chinese nationals visiting the Philippines, and one of the largest investors.

Huang, at the same time, expressed optimism on the planned oil and gas development between Beijing and the Philippines as a second meeting among top officials from both countries is slated early this year.

Xilian announced that a second meeting between top Beijing and Manila officials is scheduled early part of 2020 apparently to tackle the memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Cooperation on Oil and Gas Development.

“We are looking forward to the second meeting in the Philippines sometime early this year,” Huang said.

At present, Huang said both sides are working closely to push significant progress on the planned oil and gas exploration in the coming meetings.

The Chinese ambassador cited the meeting between Foreign Affairs Secretary Teodoro Locsin Jr. and Chinese Foreign Minister and State Councilor Wang Yi during the Asia-Europe Foreign Ministers’ Meeting.

“Our two ministers had a good meeting where they discussed how to push forward the implementation of this consensus,” Huang said.

“I think that both are working closely on this matter and we believe that with the strong guidance of both our leaders, we will make progress in the future,” he added.

The memorandum was signed in 2018 and both parties agreed on its terms of reference last year.

“It was a very important consensus between our two leaders to develop our cooperation on oil exploration and we, both the governments, are working very closely to implement this,” he noted.

The first meeting of the intergovernmental joint steering committee on oil and gas exploration was concluded in October 2019, with the two parties agreeing to further increase its engagements and implement the points identified in the 2018 MoU.

Code of Conduct conclusion

Relatedly, Huang also stressed that China is working very hard to have the Code of Conduct (CoC) in the South China Sea be concluded with the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).

“Both China and ASEAN countries are working very hard to maintain peace and stability in the South China Sea. We have completed the first readings of the CoC and we have begun the process of the second reading already,” said Huang, who as Beijing’s representative to ASEAN previously.

ASEAN and China are working to finish the negotiations by 2021.

“We are looking forward to the early conclusion of the CoC. At this important juncture, the visit of the Coast Guard (to Manila) and the exchanges between the two coast guards will contribute to the stability and tranquility in the South China Sea,” he said.

Huang was referring to a Chinese Coast Guard vessel that is currently on a five-day goodwill visit to Manila.

Such exchanges, the Chinese ambassador said, could promote “mutual understanding and cooperation” between the two states and, at a broader context, advance peace, and stability in the region where some littoral countries are embroiled in territorial disputes.”

“The purpose of this visit is, first, to implement the memorandum of understanding between the two coast guards which was signed a few years ago… Second is that it’s a good opportunity for the two to demonstrate goodwill and friendship,” Huang said.