The Year of the Rat is just a week away and designers are getting in on the Lunar New Year festivities. Brands including Gucci, Dior, Valentino and Moynat are just a few of many fashion houses honouring the Chinese New Year, which occurs on January 25 this year with a capsule collection taking festive-inspired elements into their designs. In no particular order, here are some of our favourite collections inspired by the biggest holiday in Asia.

Celine

Celine's Chinese New Year Collection Celine's Chinese New Year Collection Celine's Chinese New Year Collection Celine's Chinese New Year Collection Celine's Chinese New Year Collection Celine's Chinese New Year Collection Celine's Chinese New Year Collection Celine's Chinese New Year Collection 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8

Celine’s Lunar New Year collection spreads across womenswear and menswear, and includes a T-shirt, crewneck sweatshirt, a tie, and a bevy of selected accessories adorned in Celine’s signature Triomphe canvas with a pop of festive red leather detailing.

Gucci

Gucci’s Chinese New Year Collection Gucci’s Chinese New Year Collection Gucci’s Chinese New Year Collection Gucci’s Chinese New Year Collection Gucci’s Chinese New Year Collection 1 2 3 4 5

Gucci really hit the theme on the nose. Artistic Director Alessandro Michele enlisted the help of Mickey Mouse to celebrate the Lunar New Year seeing it is the Year of the Rat. The capsule includes men’s and women’s clothing, accessories, bags and shoes all adorned with Disney’s most famous character intertwined with Gucci’s heritage branding.

Dior

Dior's Chinese New Year Collection Dior's Chinese New Year Collection Dior's Chinese New Year Collection Dior's Chinese New Year Collection Dior's Chinese New Year Collection 1 2 3 4 5

The Saddle Bag, Lady Dior and the Dior Book Tote get a Lunar New Year makeover. The coveted bags see red floral motifs and images of a rising phoenix accented with beading and gold hardware which adds a luxe touch to the accessories. The collection also includes sweaters, eyewear, and wallets, among other items.

Louis Vuitton

Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection Louis Vuitton's Chinese New Year Collection 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16

Taking on with the theme of the Chinese astrology, Louis Vuitton has released a range of seasonal homeware, jewellery, and accessories in their Lunar collection. In addition, Louis Vuitton has crafted a range of denim canvas bags accented with bold red detailing which symbolises luck and prosperity in Chinese culture. If you’re looking to pick up any of the items, prices start from HK$4,000 for the keychains and go up to HK$33,000 for the bags.

Valentino

Valentino's Chinese New Year Collection Valentino's Chinese New Year Collection Valentino's Chinese New Year Collection Valentino's Chinese New Year Collection Valentino's Chinese New Year Collection Valentino's Chinese New Year Collection Valentino's Chinese New Year Collection Valentino's Chinese New Year Collection Valentino's Chinese New Year Collection Valentino's Chinese New Year Collection Valentino's Chinese New Year Collection 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11

Maison Valentino unveiled a special limited edition capsule collection created exclusively for the 2020 Chinese New Year. The festive capsule sees men’s and women’s ready to wear items, T-shirts and cashmere pulls as well as accessories for both men and women all characterised by a red, pink and blue colour palette and a Cosmo and Stars embroideries.

Shanghai Tang

Shanghai Tang's Chinese New Year Collection Shanghai Tang's Chinese New Year Collection Shanghai Tang's Chinese New Year Collection Shanghai Tang's Chinese New Year Collection Shanghai Tang's Chinese New Year Collection 1 2 3 4 5

Now if clothing or accessories is not your cup of tea, celebrate CNY with Shanghai Tang‘s beautifully crafted homeware collection. The Hong Kong luxury fashionhouse pays tribute to the classic paintings by renowned Chinese artist, Qi Baishi. His work can be seen on coasters, candy boxes, and more. Prices range from HK$680 for the set of four coasters and go up to HK$2,980 for the bigger enamel boxes.

Moynat

Moynat's Chinese New Year Collection Moynat's Chinese New Year Collection 1 2

The House of Moynat celebrates the Year of the Rat by sharing its two passions: exceptional French savoir-faire and “joie de vivre”. Creative director Ramesh Nair has imagined the original illustration – a rat landing on a luggage tag and bag charm. Both pieces retail for HK$3,400, and is available now at Moynat boutiques.

Miu Miu

Continuing to celebrate female empowerment, Miu Miu has enlisted the help of Disney’s female powerhouse Minnie Mouse to release a CNY capsule collection. The ready-to-wear collection includes T-shirts and sweatshirts to denim jackets and skirts. Prices start from HK$4,450 for the T-shirts to HK$10,850 for the denim jacket.