Sign up to FREE email alerts from GrimsbyLive - Daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email

Prospective British Steel buyer Jingye Group has said a deal agreed with unions will help pave the way for long term growth and huge investment in the Scunthorpe-based company.

The Chinese company has reached an agreement with representatives from Community, GMB and Unite, who together form the National Trade Union Steel Co-ordinating Committee, over employee pay, terms and conditions if a sale is completed.

And while up to 500 jobs may be lost, the focus is on a successful sale and keeping the works in Scunthorpe and the North East operational.

In a statement, Jingye Group said it was "pleased to have reached an agreement with union representatives on its proposed terms and conditions for British Steel employees".

The company added that its business plan would successfully preserve the majority of jobs at British Steel, while providing the business with a platform for long-term, sustainable growth and profitability.

Jingye Group chief executive Li Huiming said: "We believe that this agreement lays the groundwork to provide well-paid, skilled jobs at British Steel for many years to come. It will pave the way for significant investment in the company that will transform the business and allow it to succeed."

(Image: Jingye)

The company said it continued to make progress on "securing all other necessary approvals" and now aims to complete the deal by the end of March.

A statement issued by the National Trade Union Steel Co-ordinating Committee said the agreement had been reached with Jingye after 10 days of "extremely challenging" discussions and the sale was now "firmly in sight".

Community operations director Alasdair McDiarmid, said: "We used the opportunity to shape Jingye's proposals in the best interests of our members.

"Faced with challenging circumstances, we believe that the dialogue between Jingye and the unions has produced a better deal for employees than what was otherwise on the table.

"We look forward to working with everyone to securing the future of British Steel under Jingye's ownership."

Jingye swooped after Turkish firm Ataer failed to come up with an offer after a period of due diligence exclusivity. A deal with the Official Receiver, understood to be worth £50 million with a stated £1.2 billion investment plan, was agreed in November.

British Steel had been placed into compulsory liquidation after a High Court hearing heard how debts of £880 million had been racked up under the ownership of Greybull, an investment house then stripped of any control as special managers were drafted in by the government-appointed official.

Friday's developments were welcomed by Scunthorpe MP Holly Mumby-Croft.

The Conservative, who ousted Labour's sitting MP Nic Dakin in December's General Election, said: "I want to pay tribute to everybody involved in these negotiations who are clearly all focused on a positive outcome.

"We don't know the details of what and if the job losses will be, or how they will be reached. That will have to wait for when the details become available.

"My impression is that all parties have worked together to reach this."

Mrs Mumby-Croft's grandfather served on the steelworks for 30 years and she recalled childhood tours on the train, as well as him marching off to work in his steel toe-capped boots.

She said: "It has been a huge part of my life, so close to my heart.

"It is not just the people on the site it matters to, but so many other companies rely on it also. It is so very important."

For the latest top stories and breaking news visit ScunthorpeLive

Follow or contact Scunthorpe Live

Contact us : Email the reporter who wrote this story

Follow Scunthorpe Live on Facebook - Like our Facebook page to get the latest news in your feed and join in the lively discussions in the comments. Click here to give it or message us with a comment or story