EAT: Your bite-sized guide to the best eats to be had in Beijing this week.

Jan 16: Tribe to close Sanlitun location

Following closely behind the recent closure of their WF Central location, Tribe has announced that their flagship Sanlitun restaurant will also shut on Jan 16 after more than five years in operation. However, don't despair, Tribe fans – while they're shutting down their physical locations they are going to be focusing on online delivery instead, so you can continue to order your favorite dishes via third-party platforms like Meituan, Ele.me, Sherpa's, and Jinshisong. Say your goodbyes at their closing party on Wednesday, Jan 15, when they'll be offering a finger food buffet for RMB 20 (pay on the door), as well as BOGOF drinks. More details about the closing party can be found here.

Jan 11: Opening party for Hakuro by Hatsune at Block 8

This Saturday, Jan 11, the second branch of Hatsune's newest dining concept, Hakuro, is opening at Block 8 by Chaoyang Park West Gate and they're celebrating with an all-you-can-eat-and-drink extravaganza. Hakuro, meaning “white dew,” combines California-style sushi and high-quality teppanyaki. The menu will feature classic Hatsune dishes like their signature sushi rolls, melt-in-your-mouth roasted eel over rice, and indulgent Rossini (steak tenderloin topped with seared foie gras), while also showcasing teppanyaki favorites like wagyu beef and premium seafood. Tickets for the opening party cost RMB 250 in advance (book through WeChat here) or RMB 300 on the door if not sold out. That price will get you unlimited eats from seven different food stations and as much beer, wine, and sake as you can drink.

Join The Hutong on Saturday, Jan 11, for this banquet dinner, prepared by chefs Sophia and Yao. In this intimate dining experience, you’ll learn the ancient stories and traditions behind the dishes and you’ll find out how Chinese families celebrate and prepare for the most important dinner of the year. The dishes on offer will include steamed fish with ginger, braised chicken with chestnuts, stir-fried bamboo with chili, and of course, dumplings. Priced at RMB 350 per person, the dinner includes soft drinks, beer, and a glass of wine.

Try something new for lunch in the new year with the Kempinski's Japanese restaurant Honzen's all-you-can-eat lunch promotions of Tuesday and Friday. For RMB 298, eat your fill of sushi, sashimi, freshly-made sushi rolls, teriyaki chicken, salmon, and more.

Mon-Thu: Daily half-price promos at Georgia's Feast

Following the recent snow, we're in the mood for hearty, warming dishes and Georgia's Feast is obliging us with new half-price deals on some of their heartiest Georgian dishes. From Monday to Thursday, respectively, sample half-price rib-eye steak, chkmeruli (chicken in garlic cream sauce), khachapuri (essentially melted cheese and egg in a bread boat – do not miss this one, pictured above), and khinkali (Georgian-style soup dumplings). Check out some similar daily deals at their sister restaurant, Turkish Feast, here.

Looking for something on-alcohol-fueled? Try these events that won't leave you hungover.

More stories by this author here.

Instagram: @gongbaobeijing

Twitter: @gongbaobeijing

Weibo: @宫保北京

Images: Honzen, Tribe, Hakuro by Hatsune, Unsplash, Tracy Wang