Sign up to FREE email alerts from LeicestershireLive - Daily Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email

Leicester chef Kwoklyn Wan is launching a new cookery book featuring more than 70 vegetarian and vegan Chinese dishes.

The Veggie Chinese Takeaway Cookbook is the second cookery book from the chef and martial arts expert - and brother of TV star Gok Wan, who was recently made an MBE.

Kwoklyn’s first book, Chinese Takeaway Cookbook, was published in January 2019, and has since sold tens of thousands of copies in the UK, USA, Netherlands and Australia.

It was the number one-selling book in the Chinese Food and Drink section on Amazon throughout last year, and is the third best-selling cookbook that Quadrille Publishing has ever released (and it releases 150 books a year).

Now, Kwoklyn is back, providing an inspiring selection of vegetarian and vegan Chinese recipes.

(Image: Sam Folan)

Thanks to pre-sales, The Veggie Chinese Takeaway Cookbook is already at number four in the Chinese Food and Drink book section on Amazon, and, as of this week, it will be appearing bookshelves across the country.

In The Veggie Chinese Takeaway Cookbook, Kwoklyn reveals the culinary secrets he’s learned from his time working in his family's Chinese restaurants, including tips on Chinese food etiquette, cooking techniques and wok craft.

The book is described as "the ultimate guide to re-creating your favourite Chinese takeaway and Cantonese restaurant dishes at home."

(Image: Sam Folan)

It features starters such as crispy mini spring rolls, potsticker dumplings and crunchy Chinese beer-battered pakoda, and mains including spicy Kung Po cauliflower, a velvety umami Teriyaki bowl, and rich and aromatic Hong Kong crispy noodles with mixed vegetables.

According to Kwoklyn, he cooks many of these recipes at home on a regular basis.

"My eldest daughter is a vegetarian and dad doesn't eat a lot of meat anymore so it makes dinnertime easy," he told LeicestershireLive.

Talking about why he was keen to produce a vegetarian/vegan cookery book, Kwoklyn said: "I had a lot of requests of how you can adapt the recipes in my first book for non meat eaters, plus we are all very conscious of not only the health benefits of cutting down on meat consumption, but also the affects on our planet from the production of meat."

"The most common comment I get from people cooking from my books are my recipes taste exactly like they should, and look exactly like they should," he continued.

"You really do get that Chinese takeaway taste and you know 100 per cent what has gone into making the dish, so there are no hidden nasty ingredients like MSG."

(Image: Sam Folan)

Here, to give you a taster, is one of the recipes from the book...

Mushroom Teriyaki with Soba Noodles

Ingredients

120g (4½oz) soba noodles

1 tbsp oil (vegetable, groundnut or coconut)

2 large portobello mushrooms, de-stalked and cleaned

2 tbsp sweet chilli sauce (page 154 or use shop-bought)

3 tbsp honey (vegan option: use agave or maple syrup)

3 tbsp rice vinegar

1½ tbsp light soy sauce

Handful of long-stem broccoli

1 red chilli, finely diced

1 tbsp sesame seeds, toasted

Salt to taste

Put the noodles into a deep saucepan, pour over boiling water and allow to gently simmer for about 5–6 minutes while you are cooking the mushrooms.

Heat the oil in a large wok, add the portobello mushrooms and cook over a medium-high heat for 4–5 minutes on one side until browned, then turn, sprinkle with salt and the sweet chilli sauce and cook for a further 4–5 minutes until browned on the other side.

Remove from the pan and set to one side. Add 125ml (½ cup) of the soba noodle cooking water to the same wok with the honey, vinegar and soy sauce. Now add the broccoli along with half the chopped chilli.

Cook over a medium-high heat for 6 minutes; if the sauce starts to dry, add a little more water. Once the broccoli is tender, drain the noodles and add them to the wok, stirring through to ensure the noodles are well coated with the sauce.

Sprinkle over the remaining chilli and transfer to serving plates. Slice the cooked mushrooms and arrange over the top of the noodles.

Sprinkle with the toasted sesame seeds and enjoy.