European-based aircraft manufacturing giant Airbus will add 275 new jobs this year to its Mobile plant as the company continues to ramp up production of its popular single-aisle A320-family of planes.

The announcement comes just days ahead of a Jan. 13 deadline for public comments on the latest list of additional European goods slated for tariffs, and on the same day that Mobile County Commission discussed a resolution in support of Mobile’s aerospace industry. The Mobile City Council voted on a similar resolution Tuesday.

The company will begin hiring the additional workers this year in order to reach a production rate of seven A320-family aircraft per month by the beginning of 2021. The growth is in addition to the 600 new jobs the company added in 2019 for increased A320-family and new A220-family production. The company reached the 1,000 employee mark in Mobile in December, and anticipates having around 1,300 employees by the end of 2020.

Airbus also announced it will invest another $40 million through the construction of an additional support hangar on its property at the Brookley Aeroplex south of downtown Mobile.

A new $300 million assembly plant for the A220, announced about a year ago, is expected to open in the spring or early summer.

“We have invested more than $1 billion in Mobile because of the terrific team of employees there -- and because of the support and welcome we continue to receive from the Gulf Coast community,” said Airbus Americas Chairman and CEO Jeffrey Knittel, in a statement.

‘Vote of confidence’

Production at the Mobile assembly plant has continued to ramp up steadily over the past year. According to a Bloomberg report last month, the Mobile plant turns out five A320s each month, though plans call for the activity to move up to six year this year. The plant, just three years ago, was talking about a “Level Four” productivity schedule of producing four planes per month.

The increased plans for Mobile comes at a time when Airbus is planning to produce 63 of its A320-family aircraft per month. Aside from Mobile, the company manufactures the plane at final assembly facilities in Toulouse, France; Hamburg, Germany; and Tianjin, China.

Republican U.S. Sen. Richard Shelby, chairman of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, applauded Airbus for increasing the production rate at the Mobile site.

“This expansion highlights Airbus’ continued commitment to Alabama," said Shelby. "I am proud they are building advanced, state-of-the-art aircraft in our state and honored for this world-renowned company to call Mobile home.”

Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey, in a statement, said the additional jobs represents a “big vote of confidence in the quality and caliber of the Alabama workforce.”

Said Ivey, “Today’s announcement will also better position Mobile to remain on track to becoming one of the top four cities in the world for aerospace manufacturing. I look forward to seeing Airbus reach future milestones at its U.S. manufacturing home in Sweet Home Alabama.”

The job expansion in Mobile comes at a time when Airbus is experiencing a surge in activity following an order by United Airlines in December for 50 jets in the Airbus 320-family that are manufactured in Mobile. United’s order was made to replace an aging fleet of Boeing 737 planes and occurred at a time when Airbus’ chief rival is scrambling to fix its 737 Max family of jets. The 737 Max has been grounded worldwide since last spring following two fatal crashes that occurred within five months.

The job announcement in Mobile also piggybacks off of more good news for Airbus after the company was officially named as the world’s largest planemaker for the first time since 2011. The company delivered 863 aircraft during 2019, an increase of nearly 8% over the nearly 800 jets delivered in 2018, according to Reuters.

Boeing, on the other hand, had a difficult year that ended with the removal of the company’s CEO in December.

‘Lockstep as a community’

United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer testifies before the Senate Finance Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington, Tuesday, June 18, 2019, during a hearing hearing on 'The President's 2019 Trade Policy Agenda and the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement'. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)AP

But uncertainty looms for Airbus and its operations in Mobile ahead of a deadline for public comments into whether imported aerospace components -- such as fuselages -- will be part of a round of tariffs backed by the Trump Administration. The imported parts are crucial to Airbus’ assembly processes in Mobile, and a hefty tariff on them could lead to job losses in the Port City.

U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer’s office, last month, published a list of items the U.S. is considering replacing tariffs on, including 100% assessments on European products such as wines and whisky. Airbus and Mobile area officials are concerned that the list could be finalized to include 100% tariffs on airplane parts into Mobile.

Initially, a 25% tariff was considered for the imported components. But the Trump administration exempted the imported airline components in October.

U.S. Rep. Bradley Byrne, R-Fairhope, who is running for the Republican nomination to the Senate this spring, said he credited the administration’s decision to exempt the airline parts for “driving huge demand for our American made Airbus planes.”

The root of the tariff talks is in an ongoing battle between Airbus and Boeing. On Oct. 2, the World Trade Organization ruled that Airbus had benefited from illegal subsidies in a 15-year-old case that also involves Boeing, and authorized the U.S. to impose tariffs worth $7.5 billion on European goods. But the WTO also ruled that Boeing benefited from illegal subsidies in the U.S., and the European Union will have its shot later this year on assessing tariffs on exported goods from U.S. shores.

Airbus officials hope that U.S. and European officials can reach an agreement that ends dispute.

“Tariffs should not be a permanent part of the economic/trade landscape, and we’re hopeful that the U.S. and Europe will negotiate an end to the current trade dispute well before our Mobile production ramp up is complete,” said Tucker.

The timing of the additional jobs and production rate in at the Mobile Airbus plant offers a “good look” for the Mobile region ahead of the Jan. 13 public commenting deadline that Lighthizer’s office has set on the latest tariff proposal.

“On this issue, we are all in lockstep as a community,” said Mobile County Commissioner Connie Hudson.

The county commission plans to vote on its resolution in support of the aerospace industry in Mobile and in opposition to a tariff on imported airline parts on Monday.

The county is also inviting Lighthizer to come to Mobile and witness “firsthand” the city’s growing aerospace community.

“We are in lockstep in realizing the adverse impact of these tariffs and in expressing our concerns and hopefully, the U.S. Trade Representative will heed that," said Hudson.

Commissioner Jerry Carl said the resolutions underscored a worry among local officials that a 100% tariff on imported airline parts could prompt Airbus executives to reconsider their North American process elsewhere, such as in Canada.

“You’re talking about 1,000 jobs,” he said. “You’re talking about someone living in every city (in the Mobile County region). There are good-paying, high-skill jobs and these are jobs we want. We don’t want, because of a 100% tariff, cause them to be shipped off.”

Carl speculated that the tariff talks could eventually be beneficial for Mobile if it leads to more manufacturing operations to help boost the Airbus plant instead of having the facility rely on importing airline parts.

“It cause us all to slow down and look -- what if we do build a complete plane here?” said Carl. “It’s a thought. I have nothing to base it on, but it’s a thought.”

The Baldwin County Commission has also passed its own resolution in support of the aerospace industry in the area.

Said Commission Chairwoman Billie Jo Underwood, "The proposed tariffs have a real potential to negatively impact the aerospace industry, Baldwin County businesses that are vendors and suppliers to Airbus, as well as the hundreds of Baldwin County citizens that are direct Airbus employees.”

This story was updated at 11:44 a.m. on Jan. 9, 2020, to include statements from Mobile County Commissioners, and at 2:48 p.m. to include a statement from Baldwin County Commissioner Billie Jo Underwood.