Editor's Note:

As China has been making all-out efforts to combat the novel coronavirus, Dr. Ali Obaid Al Dhaheri, the United Arab Emirates Ambassador to China, recorded a video to share the thoughts and sympathy that the UAE nation has for the Chinese people as they combat against the outbreak. In the video, the ambassador said that the coronavirus transcends borders, races and cultures and that in the battle, the UAE is a comrade-in-arms standing firmly with the Chinese people to combat it. Above is the full video.

Full Script for H.E Dr. Ali Obaid Al Dhaheri - Ambassador of the United Arab Emirates to the People's Republic of China

My dear friends and colleagues in China. I am Ali Dhaheri, the UAE Ambassador to China. This has been a tough start of the Chinese New Year of the Rat for the Chinese people. I would like to share the thoughts and sympathy of the UAE nation for those who are suffering and affected in Wuhan and throughout China by the coronavirus outbreak. This coronavirus transcends borders, races and cultures. In this ‘battle’, the UAE is a comrade-in-arms standing firmly with the Chinese people to combat the COVID-19.

Like the Chinese saying, “challenges make a nation even stronger”, the fortitude and the strength of the Chinese nation shines through the ‘battle’. In particular, the courage and bravery of the doctors and nurses on the front line provide a model of the best of human nature.

The UAE is deepening healthcare cooperation to support efforts to face this medical challenge. Our country is also relaying hundreds of thousands of units of essential goods such as surgical masks, medical gloves, goggles and protective clothing to support the medical effort and healthcare personnel in the affected areas. Our two globally renowned airlines, Etihad and Emirates, are keeping the connectivity between our two nations open by continuing flights to and from Beijing.

Our country continues to be active in business and cultural engagement with China and our visa policy and border entry policy for Chinese citizens remains the same.

In my engagements and time here in China, I have gotten to know the remarkable strength and resilience of the Chinese people. Your friends in the UAE have great faith in your capabilities and inner resolve to overcome this challenge.

Wuhan jiāyóu！ Zhongguo jiāyóu！

Let's hear the voices of support from the UAE.