“Color Out of Space”

The blend of Nicolas Cage and an H.P. Lovecraft story makes for one of the actor’s best recent efforts, if word-of-mouth is believed. A town is struck by a meteor but that’s just the beginning of its citizens’ troubles.

Unrated. Playing at Alamo Drafthouse LaCenterra, Katy.

“Clemency”

This highly acclaimed film, which won a Jury Award at Sundance, is opening in Houston with little fanfare. Alfre Woodard delivers a powerful performance as a warden who begins to have conflicting emotions about her job of sanctioning the killing of prisoners on death row.

Rated R. Playing at Regal MarqE 23, Houston.

“Detective Chinatown 3”

Comedic action-thriller from China involving two of Asia’s strongest detectives battling over a case. One of the stars is Thai martial-arts star Tony Jaa.

Unrated. Playing at Regal MarqE 23, Houston; AMC Studio 30, Houston; AMC Fountains 18, Stafford.

“Disco Raja”

Telegu-language science-fiction film from India.

Unrated. Playing at Cinemark Memorial City, Houston.

“The Gentlemen”

Guy Ritchie’s latest action film focuses on a British drug lord who sells his business to a group of Oklahoma billionaires. Matthew McConaughey, Charlie Hunnam, Henry Golding, Hugh Grant and Michelle Dockery star.

Rated R Playing throughout Houston.

“The Last Full Measure”

A starry cast — Samuel L. Jackson, Ed Harris, Sebastian Stan, Diane Lane, Bradley Whitford, William Hurt, Peter Fonda, Amy Madigan — tells the story of the effort to honor Airman William H. Pitsenbarger Jr., who flew on nearly 300 rescue missions during the Vietnam War.

Rated R. Playing throughout Houston.

“Les Miserables”

The French entry in Oscar’s best international film category is a cop drama only loosely related to the Victor Hugo tale that originally had this title. But this story takes place in the same neighborhood, one now populated by African and Middle-Eastern immigrants.

Rated R. Playing at Landmark River Oaks, Houston.

“Miracle in Cell No. 7”

Drama from the Philippines about a daughter who grows up to be a lawyer in order to prove her father was wrongfully charged with sexual assault.

Unrated. Playing at AMC Studio 30, Houston.

“Panga”

Inspired by a true story, this Hindi-language film from India follows the travails of a female player of the sport of kabbadi.

Unrated. Playing at AMC First Colony, Sugar Land.

“Qué Leones”

Spanish-language romantic-comedy from the Dominican Republic about a woman who finds out her husband is cheating on her and her father is dating a woman half his age.

Unrated. Playing at AMC Gulf Pointe 30, Houston.

“The Queen’s Corgi”

Animated film about an English queen’s dog who goes missing from the palace, winds up at a dog-fight club and must find his way back home.

Unrated. Playing at Greenspoint Premiere Renaissance 15, Houston.

“Street Dancer 3”

Hindi-language musical-drama from India about the lives of street dancers.

Unrated. Playing at AMC Gulf Pointe 30, Houston; AMC First Colony 24, Houston.

“The Turning”

This mystery-horror-thriller, an update of Henry James’ “The Turn of the Screw,” revolves around a governess who is hired by a man to oversee his nephews. Mackenzie Davis (“Terminator: Dark Fate”) and Finn Wolfhard star.

Rated PG-13. Playing throughout Houston.

“The Wave”

Donald Faison (“Scrubs,” “Ray Donovan”) and Justin Long are featured in this sci-fi/thriller about a guy who goes to a bar to celebrate his promotion where he finds his life turned upside down.

Rated R. Playing Wednesday only at Alamo Drafthouse LaCenterra, Katy.

cary.darling@chron.com

twitter.com/carydar