Kabarak first principal recalls Ayrshire bull gift from Moi

Former President Daniel Arap Moi (right) with Moi High School principal Joseph Kimetto (second right) at the school.

Joseph Kimetto (pictured) was the principal at Kericho Tea High School when President Daniel arap Moi visited for a fundraiser in 1978.Moi told Kimetto that he was starting a school and he wanted him at the helm. The surprised principal agreed to the request and when he got to Kabarak, there was brushland to be cleared before the first iron-sheet classrooms could be erected the following year. At the time, Kimetto owned six indigenous cows. In appreciation, Moi gifted him an Ayrshire bull to improve his cattle breed. The President also offered him a 160-acre parcel of land in Nakuru to establish a farm. The former principal now owns over 100 Friesians. He also does fruit farming. "I would not have any of these things if Moi had not picked me. He gave me a very good bull,” said Kimetto.

For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper. Subscribe Now »

Although he said he still doesn't know why the President picked him to be the first principal of Kabarak High School, it was a great honour to be selected over the other teachers. Kimetto described his relationship with Moi like that of father and son, adding that he often accompanied the President on journeys overseas. "All the trips I made abroad, including visiting China, Germany, Australia, United Kingdom and India, were because of him,” he said. Kimetto said the President was interested in education and made great efforts to bring about changes in the sector. He confessed that he learnt 'the art of humility' after watching Moi join students at the school where he would sometimes share a meal with them. Kimetto also revealed that Moi established a hatchery that was owned by the school. The Rift Valley Hatchery would produce nearly 27,000 chicks each day. The chicks would then be sold all over East Africa. Profits from the business, he said, were used to subsidise school fees or needy students.

Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE.