The simplest way to invest in stocks is to buy exchange traded funds. But if you pick the right individual stocks, you could make more than that. For example, the China YuHua Education Corporation Limited (HKG:6169) share price is up 85% in the last year, clearly besting the market return of around -7.6% (not including dividends). So that should have shareholders smiling. China YuHua Education hasn't been listed for long, so it's still not clear if it is a long term winner.

Check out our latest analysis for China YuHua Education

To paraphrase Benjamin Graham: Over the short term the market is a voting machine, but over the long term it's a weighing machine. By comparing earnings per share (EPS) and share price changes over time, we can get a feel for how investor attitudes to a company have morphed over time.

Over the last twelve months, China YuHua Education actually shrank its EPS by 9.7%.

Given the share price gain, we doubt the market is measuring progress with EPS. Since the change in EPS doesn't seem to correlate with the change in share price, it's worth taking a look at other metrics.

We think that the revenue growth of 43% could have some investors interested. Many businesses do go through a phase where they have to forgo some profits to drive business development, and sometimes its for the best.

You can see how earnings and revenue have changed over time in the image below (click on the chart to see the exact values).

SEHK:6169 Income Statement, February 24th 2020 More

China YuHua Education is well known by investors, and plenty of clever analysts have tried to predict the future profit levels. So it makes a lot of sense to check out what analysts think China YuHua Education will earn in the future (free analyst consensus estimates)

What About Dividends?

It is important to consider the total shareholder return, as well as the share price return, for any given stock. The TSR incorporates the value of any spin-offs or discounted capital raisings, along with any dividends, based on the assumption that the dividends are reinvested. It's fair to say that the TSR gives a more complete picture for stocks that pay a dividend. We note that for China YuHua Education the TSR over the last year was 90%, which is better than the share price return mentioned above. This is largely a result of its dividend payments!

A Different Perspective

China YuHua Education shareholders should be happy with the total gain of 90% over the last twelve months , including dividends . And the share price momentum remains respectable, with a gain of 27% in the last three months. This suggests the company is continuing to win over new investors. I find it very interesting to look at share price over the long term as a proxy for business performance. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. Consider for instance, the ever-present spectre of investment risk. We've identified 2 warning signs with China YuHua Education , and understanding them should be part of your investment process.

We will like China YuHua Education better if we see some big insider buys. While we wait, check out this free list of growing companies with considerable, recent, insider buying.

Please note, the market returns quoted in this article reflect the market weighted average returns of stocks that currently trade on HK exchanges.