We take a break after a fun-filled, and perhaps slightly askew, weekend, putting down our drinks to take a more productive look at the days ahead in Beijing. Here is our top pick of this week's Events That Won't Leave You Hungover...

Tuesday, Dec 7

Red Gate New Year’s Exhibition

Opening Jan 1, Red Gate Gallery in 798 ushers in the new year with a group exhibition spanning 12 different Chinese artists across various mediums that include painting, photography, and sculptural works, bringing fresh perspectives to the gallery floor in 2020. Free. Tue-Sun, 10am-6pm. Red Gate Gallery

Wednesday, Dec 8

Facts Please Book Club Event

The Facts Please book club is dedicated to "connecting readers to ponder on factual matters" and this latest edition will tackle Niall Ferguson's book The Square and the Tower: Networks, Hierarchies and the Struggle for Global Power, which takes a deep dive into the effect of social networks throughout history and attempts to contextualize the power of the internet against previous networks that have come before. Simply read, turn up, and debate! Free. 9pm. Modernista

Thursday, Dec 9

Camera Stylo Short Film Corner

For the next two weeks, Camera Stylo will screen two short films by Chinese filmmaker Yang Tianshuo, University of Bristol graduate, on loop, 24 hours a day. Join them and settle in to watch Yang's New Art and Lemonade (both subtitled in English). Free. 1pm-2am. Camera Stylo

Friday, Dec 10

Beijing Improv: Improvised Comedy

Anything goes this Thursday as Beijing Improv try to one-up each other with ludicrous ways to make up stories as they unfold. Unlike traditional comedy, improv is heavily reliant on the audience who are invited to shout out cues for the actors to run away with, meaning that "attendees never know what is in store, but there is always the guarantee of a laugh and a good time!" All proceeds from the show will be donated to a local charity that benefits migrant children. RMB 85, RMB 75 (advance). 8pm. Aio Space

Saturday, Dec 11

Hike: Yinmeng Temple and Sujia River

Take a hike! No, really. This Saturday, Beijing Hikers head almost 1,000 meters up into the Yudu Mountains, north of Yanqing City, to visit the Yinmeng Temple. The trail follows the river, passing below tall cliffs and around bends in the valley before winding down via a scenic path through birch forests into the Sujia River valley. Expect beautiful views of the mountains, cliffs, canyons, and the river that'll make you forget the cold. RMB 380, RMB 340 (members) 7.30am onwards. Liangmaqiao subway

Sunday, Dec 12

Sunday Weekly Board Gaming Meetup in Dongzhimen

Historically, Sundays are made for rest and recovery and if you're feeling really frisky, a little board gaming on the side. Head to The Frontiers School on Sunday for their weekly board game bonanza, where they'll be playing games such as Gizmos, Castles of Burgundy, Black Angel, Wingspan, Heaven & Ale, Altiplano, Pulsar 2849, Concordia, Crokinole, and many more. You can also bring your own games. RMB 10. Midday onwards. The Frontiers School

READ: Wake Up, Meeple! These Are the Best Board Game Cafés in Beijing

Images courtesy of the organizers, avenuecalgary.com