Source: Xinhua| 2020-02-05 22:21:29|Editor: huaxia

Video Player Close

BEIJING, Feb. 5 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping on Wednesday met with Cambodian Prime Minister Samdech Techo Hun Sen at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.

Noting that the Chinese government and people are currently doing their utmost to fight the pneumonia epidemic caused by the novel coronavirus, Xi said: "A friend in need is a friend indeed as the Cambodian people stand with the Chinese people at this special moment."

Xi said Cambodian King Norodom Sihamoni and his mother, former Queen Norodom Monineath Sihanouk, had specially extended sympathy and support to the Chinese side.

Moreover, the Cambodian prime minister had expressed strong support to China on many occasions and even made a special tour to China on Wednesday, which demonstrated unbreakable friendship and mutual trust between the two sides and showcased the essence of building a community of shared future of the two countries, said Xi, adding China deeply appreciated Cambodia's such moves.

Xi stressed that the Communist Party of China and the Chinese government had adopted the most thorough and strict prevention and control measures in a highly responsible manner toward the Chinese people and the international community in dealing with the epidemic.

"At present, the prevention and control work is achieving positive results," said Xi.

Xi said the Chinese nation had overcome adversity through its development and therefore it has confidence and capability to win the fight against the outbreak of the epidemic.

"We will continue to strengthen cooperation with other countries, including Cambodia, in an open and transparent manner to effectively deal with the epidemic and maintain global and regional public health security," said Xi.

"We will take good care of Cambodian citizens in China, including Cambodian students studying in China, and protect their lives and health as we treat Chinese citizens," said Xi.

Xi said that in 2020 China will maintain close high-level exchanges with Cambodia, implement the action plan on building a community of shared future of the two countries and uplift China-Cambodia relations to new heights.

Hun Sen said when China was in a difficult time, the Cambodian people stood firmly with the Chinese people to undergo and overcome common difficulties, and the two countries are truly "steadfast friends."

Hun Sen said that he decided to make a special visit to China with an aim to showcase Cambodia's support to China in fighting the outbreak of the epidemic.

The prime minister expressed gratitude for China's care of Cambodian citizens in China, expecting this tour to reinforce their confidence.

In the face of the epidemic, some countries have adopted some extreme restrictive measures, which are not desirable. What is more terrible than the epidemic is the panic itself, he said.

Hun Sen said Cambodia will continue to carry out normal cooperation and exchanges with China and is committed to working with China to build a community with a shared future of the two countries.