Jiangsu Atom Bioscience & Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd (Atom Bioscience) has raised 150 million yuan ($22 million) in a Series B round led by Livzon Pharmaceutical, a wholly-owned investment platform Zhuhai Lizhu Pharmaceutical Equity Investment Management Co., Ltd. In a separate development, China’s premium big data solution company Chengdu Shuzhilian Technology Company has also secured a similar amount from GF Venture Capital and existing investor Yinxinggu Capital.

Atom Bioscience raises $22m

Jiangsu Atom Bioscience & Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd (Atom Bioscience) has raised 150 million yuan ($22 million) in a Series B funding round led by Livzon Pharmaceutical, a wholly-owned investment platform Zhuhai Lizhu Pharmaceutical Equity Investment Management Co., Ltd.

Jiangsu, is a drug development firm focused on the treatment of metabolic diseases and cancers, will use the funding to spruce up research of new elements of innovative medicines in the US and Asia.

Led by the founder William (Dongfang) Shi, who has about 30 years experience in the industry, the company has a strong pipeline of research in the US and China since its inception in 2012. The company specializes in drugs for treating gout and other hyperuricemia related diseases worldwide.

“On a global scale, there have been few breakthroughs in gout medicines in recent decades,” said Dr. Shi Dongfang in a company statement.

Livzon Pharmaceutical Group is a comprehensive pharmaceutical enterprise, that has 17 billion yuan ($2.5 billion) in assets under management.

Shuzhilian bags $22m in Series B round

China’s premium big data solution company Chengdu Shuzhilian Technology Company has secured 150 million yuan ($22 million) in a Series B funding round led by GF Venture Capital and its existing investor Yinxinggu Capital, a private equity firm focused on early-stage investment in the new economy.

The funding round also saw the participation of Huali Group and Anwin Capital. Upon completion, Shuzhilian is valued at 1 billion yuan ($145 million), per a company statement.

Set up in 2012, Shuzhilian provides big data technology designed to provide big data solutions for government and enterprises to speed up digital transformation.

With the corpus raised, the company plans to upgrade its technologies and enhance its big data solutions for the sectors it caters to. Meanwhile, it targets to develop the capacity in smart manufacturing.