Delhi Auto Expo 2020: Great Wall Motors to showcase Haval SUVs, world's cheapest electric car, and more

Morris Garages' success in India seems to have encouraged several other Chinese carmakers to consider entering the competitive Indian car market. In case you are confused, MG, though originally a British brand, is owned by Chinese automaker SAIC. As a matter of fact, MG Hector is based on SAIC's Baojun 530 SUV. Now, SAIC-owned MG's success has inspired Chinese carmaker Great Wall Motors (GWM) to enter our market. GWM will make its India debut at the Auto Expo 2020 and will showcase a wide range of vehicles. The company will be bringing Haval sub-brand here, and is expected to showcase several SUVs, including Haval H6, which was teased earlier this month. Besides Haval, we can expect Great Wall Motors to also bring is electric mobility arm -- ORA -- to the motor show.

1. Haval H6

Haval H6 is a five-seater compact SUV which will rival the likes of MG Hector, Tata Harrier, Kia Seltos, Jeep Compass, etc. To take on such competitors, this SUV will get imposing styling and a plethora of features. The China-spec Haval H6 gets provisions like nine-inch infotainment system, 12.3-inch fully digital instrument panel, panoramic sunroof, heated front seats, dual zone climate control system, and a host of safety gadgetry like lane departure warning, lane change assist, airbags, etc. As for the engine options, H6 will most likely be offered with a choice between 1.5-litre petrol and 2.0-litre diesel engine options. Transmission options on the SUV will most likely include six-speed manual and seven-speed DCT automatic.

2. Haval H9

Haval will also showcase H9 SUV at the upcoming Auto Expo 2020. It is a seven-seater SUV which will rival the likes of Toyota Fortuner and Ford Endeavour. China-spec Haval draws power from a 2.0-litre turbocharged diesel engine which is offered in combination with a ZF-sourced eight-speed automatic transmission. We think this combination will be available on the India-spec H9 as well, although a manual gearbox will also be made available here. Haval H9 is expected to get a number of modern features like widescreen infotainment system, fully digital instrument panel, all-around airbags, all-terrain control system, etc. H9 is likely to be the first Haval car to be launched in India, perhaps by mid-2020.

3. ORA R1

(ORA R1 electric car)

ORA is Great Wall Motors electric mobility sub-brand and was launched in 2018. We expect to see a number of ORA EVs at the Auto Expo, but the highlight here will be the ORA R1. A five-seater electric hatchback, ORA R1 is the world's cheapest electric car and retails at ¥59,800 or ₹6.14 lakh. It is powered by a 33 kWh battery pack which allows the car achieve a top-speed of 100 km/h and offers a riding range of around 300 km on a single charge. ORA R1 also gets a nine-inch touchscreen system with connectivity features and an artificial intelligence-based voice assistant. Besides R1, ORA R2, and ORA iQ electric vehicles are also expected to be present at Great Wall Motors' stall at Auto Expo 2020.



