President Arif Alvi of Pakistan noted that China's strong measures against the novel coronavirus outbreak are widely recognized by the world, and expressed confidence that the resilient Chinese people, under the leadership of the CPC, will definitely overcome the challenge.

President U Win Myint of Myanmar believed that working in unity and under the leadership of President Xi Jinping, the Chinese people will definitely contain the epidemic against all odds.

Prime Minister Samdech Techo Hun Sen of Cambodia, expressing appreciation for China's efforts to care for the Cambodian nationals in China, pledged that Cambodia will stand with China through thick and thin and tide over this difficult time together.

President Gotabaya Rajapaksa of Sri Lanka said that as a true friend who shares weal and woe, his country will stand firmly with China.

President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih of Maldives spoke highly of the openness, transparency and responsibility that China has shown in the battle against the outbreak.

President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev of Kazakhstan commended and expressed support for China's decisive measures to control the outbreak. Kazakhstan hopes to strengthen coordination with China to overcome this common threat as quickly as possible.

President Sooronbai Jeenbekov of Kyrgyzstan thanked China for taking care of the Kyrgyz nationals in China and believed that China will defeat the outbreak at an early date.

President Emomali Rahmon of Tajikistan wished all patients a quick recovery and expressed confidence that the effective measures taken by the Chinese leadership and government will achieve the desired outcome.

President Shavkat Mirziyoyev of Uzbekistan expressed his country's readiness to work with China in battling the epidemic.

President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan expressed solidarity with the Chinese people and readiness to provide all necessary assistance.

President Sergio Mattarella of Italy wished all patients a speedy recovery under the care of brave Chinese doctors and nurses. Italy stands ready to provide China with all forms of support that may help.

President Andrzej Duda of Poland commended China's swift and decisive measures. The bravery and unity manifested by the Chinese people have won respect from people around the world, including Poland.

President Miloš Zeman of the Czech Republic stated that his country stands shoulder to shoulder with the people of China in the fight and will provide necessary assistance.

President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović of Croatia expressed confidence in China's ability to bring the epidemic under control as quickly as possible, and reiterated that her people stand side by side with the people of China.

President Aleksandar Vučić of Serbia expressed appreciation for the resilience of the Chinese nation in the face of adversity, and his full confidence in China defeating the epidemic under President Xi Jinping's leadership.

President George Vella of Malta stated that his people fully support the Chinese government in fighting the epidemic.

President Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi of Egypt expressed his government's and people's firm support for China and his confidence in China's ability to defeat the epidemic soon. Egypt will make every effort to provide all possible support to China.

President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria lauded China's exemplary effort to control the spread of the virus and stressed that it is only a matter of time before China wins the battle against the epidemic.

President Alpha Condé of Guinea reaffirmed heartfelt appreciation for the precious support and selfless help from China during the Ebola outbreak, and expressed confidence in the ability of the wise Chinese people to prevail over the epidemic.

President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo of Ghana said that China's strong mobilization, openness and transparency give the international community hope for bringing the outbreak completely under control.

President Danny Faure of Seychelles commended the strong resolve and capability of the Chinese government and people, and China's determined efforts to contain the spread of the virus.

The foreign ministers of Mongolia, Timor-Leste, Rwanda, Georgia, Jamaica and Peru, the Director General of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the Secretary General of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the Director General of the Universal Postal Union (UPU) also commended China's prevention and control measures, noting that China sets an example to the world with its excellent organizational and emergency response capabilities.