Fans are no longer able to buy Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's royal wedding souvenirs on the Royal Collection Trust website.

A spokesperson for the Royal Collection Trust told Insider that the items have sold out.

However, items from Princess Eugenie's wedding range have also sold out, and they are still featured on the official website.

Harry and Markle recently filed to trademark their Sussex Royal brand, which is also the name of their upcoming charitable foundation.

Visit Insider's homepage for more stories.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex's official wedding souvenirs are no longer available to buy on the Royal Collection Trust website.

Items from the commemorative range — including a pillbox and miniature mug — were still on the website as recently as a few days ago, according to Hello! Magazine and the Mail Online.

A spokesperson for the Royal Collection Trust told Insider that the items have sold out.

"Many of Royal Collection Trust's china ranges are produced to celebrate a specific occasion and are sold for a limited time. The china range to celebrate the wedding of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex has sold out," said the spokesperson.

The spokesperson would not comment on whether items for the Duke and Duchess of Sussex would return back in stock in the future.

However, items from Princess Eugenie's wedding range are sold out, and yet some are still featured on the website.

There has been no official confirmation on whether the decision to pull the couple's wedding range is linked to their departure from the royal family.

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are in the process of trademarking Sussex Royal, the name of their upcoming charitable foundation.

The couple said of their decision to split their time between the UK and North America: "This geographic balance will enable us to raise our son with an appreciation for the royal tradition into which he was born, while also providing our family with the space to focus on the next chapter, including the launch of our new charitable entity."

They first filed to trademark Sussex Royal in June 2019, after splitting from Prince William and Kate Middleton's Royal Foundation.

However, Prince Harry and Markle have been required to give a period of opposition where anyone can make a complaint to the Intellectual Property Office.

According to the Daily Mail, a complaint has been issued by Benjamin Worcester, an Australian doctor, however, his reasons have not been disclosed. It has also not been disclosed if and how this will impact the duke and duchess' plans moving forward.

Read more:

Meghan Markle and Prince Harry will focus on their new charity as they 'step back' from royal life, but they haven't said what it will do yet

Meghan Markle's former drama teacher says being a royal is 'the biggest acting job of any human being in the world'

Thomas Markle says he cried seeing Meghan Markle walk down the aisle because he was 'jealous' of Prince Charles