Fiji and the Pacific region, was for the first time represented at the 9th meeting of the United Nations World Tourism Organisation’s (UNWTO) Committee on Tourism and Competitiveness (CTC), in its capacity as a member representing the UNWTO Commission for East Asia and the Pacific (CAP).



Fiji expressed its candidature to the CTC for the period of 2019-2023, occupying the one seat allocated to the UNWTO CAP by the decision of its 53rd meeting in Bhutan on 4 June 2019.



Subsequently, along the margins of the 23rd General Assembly, Fiji was confirmed as a member following the endorsement of the 111th session of the Executive Council in its newly elected composition on 13 September 2018.



At the 9th meeting of the CTC on 24 January 2020 in Madrid, Spain, attended by Fijian Consul General/Trade Commissioner China, Dr Yolinda Chan, Fiji was successfully elected as Vice Chair for the 2019-2023 period. The meeting also discussed the work plan of the CTC for the 2020-2021 period. Key amongst the CTC’s new term priorities include policy recommendations to increase competitiveness, product and niche development and establishing best practices and guidelines for value addition. There will also be special efforts to promote the development of rural tourism in 2020.



“Fiji’s election is not only a national feat, but one for the Pacific region. We made a commitment when we hosted the 30th Joint Commission meeting in 2018 to play a greater role within the UNWTO so our representation will ensure that the Pacific is strategically represented at the forefront of discussions, particularly on issues impacting Small Island Developing States”, highlighted Dr Chan.



There were a number of action-oriented outcomes from the 9th meeting of the CTC, and as new member and Vice Chair to the CTC, Fiji will do its best to ensure the collective interest of the Commission for East Asia and the Pacific will be at the forefront of discussions. Fiji will continue to strengthen collaboration in global tourism policy recommendation and the implementation of key activities of the CTC and UNWTO work programme.