Source: Xinhua| 2020-01-12 17:27:13|Editor: Wang Yamei

Video Player Close

SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 11 (Xinhua) -- A documentary about a San Francisco Chinese community leader was screened at a city public library here and inspired Chinese American children to become "ambassadors" who work for closer China-U.S. ties, an organizer said Saturday.

The short film about Florence Fang, who is a Chinese American publisher and a prominent Chinese community leader in the San Francisco Bay Area, allowed children from many Chinese American families to learn about Fang, who has been dedicated to promoting China-U.S. friendship for over 80 years, Betty Yuan, an organizer of the U.S. non-profit Bridge Road International Foundation, told Xinhua.

Fang was invited to attend the celebrations of the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China after she left the Chinese mainland seven decades ago, Yuan said.

"I hope Fang's story will encourage our next generation of overseas Chinese to see her as their model, to continue her endeavor of carrying forward cultural exchanges between Chinese and American people," Yuan said.

Fang was the former owner of the San Francisco Examiner, a mainstream U.S. English newspaper in the Bay Area that served as a platform for Chinese Americans to be heard in mainstream U.S. society.

She was also the founder of the World War II (WWII) Pacific War Memorial Hall in San Francisco Chinatown, the first private overseas commemorative facility that kept an extensive record of those who fought Japanese aggression in Asia, including China during WWII.

Chang-Lynn Tan, a 14-year girl from Mission San Jose High School in Fremont, East Bay, told Xinhua that it was "really interesting to see how Florence Fang was able to preserve her Chinese heritage and combine it with American culture."

"By establishing the WWII Pacific War Memorial Hall, she was able to establish a statement where the two countries could work together peacefully to achieve something greater," Tan said.

As a Chinese American, it was very empowering to see how Fang could achieve her dreams through hard work and determination, she added.

The documentary screening event held at the Main Library of San Francisco Public Library was hosted by the Bridge Road International Foundation in partnership with the Hanlin Education Foundation of America.