The nondenominational congregation has outgrown two locations in two years.

CANTON Not only have Revs. Zac Sgro and Joey Nigro defied the odds of church-plant failures, their ministry has more than quadrupled in size since its start in 2018.

In two years, the nondenominational Neighborhood Church has outgrown two locations. It currently leases space in the original First Friends Church at 2130 31st. St. NW.

The ministry began in Sgro’s home in North Canton.

“We started out in our living room with 24 adults and 15 kids in the basement,” he recalled.

Today, the church has about 140 weekly attendees.

“I think what we’ve done is create a church that’s filled with authentic people who don’t have it all together and who don’t feel judged for not having it all together,” Srgo said. “Through that, they’ve been able to see Jesus with a fresh set of eyes.”

In addition to worship services, Neighborhood Church facilitates weekly gatherings where smaller groups of members talk and share meals.

It’s helped foster relationships and a sense of community beyond worship services, reminiscent of Christianity in its infancy, Nigro said.

“It’s one thing to go on Sundays, but it’s a whole other step to go beyond that,” he said. “... People don’t just come and leave (worship) once they’e connected to a community beyond Sunday. You get to know one another on a more intimate level. It makes it much less likely that you’re gonna bail.”

“Joey is really good at this, fostering organic meetings,” Sgro said. “People taking time to be invested each others’ lives, which is a way to foster deeper relationships. When people see how invested we are in them, they become invested.”

“It’s a learned disposition that becomes part of who you are,” Nigro added.

Safe place

The church has added a student ministry and is offering a leadership training curriculum.

“To be able to raise up leaders from your own people is exciting,” Nigro said.

Though 30 to 40 percent of all new churches fail, Sgro said, he believes Neighborhood Church is thriving because it’s a safe place for people who have become disenfranchised from the traditional model.

“It’s also a safe place for those who are ’de-churched’ and the un-churched who are exploring their faith and are looking for a safe place in which to do so,” he said.

The growth comes from social media, word-of-mouth and from members inviting others to services or discussion groups.

“That would be the primary way,” Sgro said of the latter.

“We do see a decent amount of growth that’s not ’transfer’ growth,” Nigro said.

Just as I am

As American churches experience a mass exodus of young adults, Nigro said, it’s because millennials like himself want authenticity “and want nothing to do with politicized religion.”

“I think many have experienced a Christianity and culture that doesn’t seem real, that doesn’t change anyone’s life,” he said. “They aren’t going to go to services just because their parents did. If it’s not real, why would you want it?

“You have to introduce people to the real Jesus. They have to see the change in your life. They have to see that you’re real and accessible. That’s something they might be interested in.”

Srgo said their ultimate goal is to offer a real ministry for real people.

“I know that sounds cliche,” he said. “If you argued on the way to church, that’s fine. If you smell like cigarettes, that’s fine. Look at how Jesus accommodated us. It’s not that we foster people to continue to live a destructive lifestyle but accommodating them in the way Jesus did, which was not judging them for it.”

“’Just as I am;’ Every church says it, but not every church means it,” Nigro said. “We mean it. Just as you are.”

To learn more, visit their Facebook page or www.ourneighborhood.org