- Bitcoin investors can finally buy Bitcoin with ATM as the first Bitcoin ATM in Nigeria has finally been designed

- The machine was designed in Shenzhen by the founder and chief executive officer of Blockstale, Daniel Adekunle

- The Bitcoin ATM is sited at a bar and lounge in the Ajah area of Lagos

The first Bitcoin ATM in Nigeria has finally been designed, courtesy of the founder and chief executive officer of Blockstale, Daniel Adekunle.

The ATM was designed in Shenzhen, China, to serve the need of Bitcoin investors and it is sited at a lounge and bar in the Ajah area of Lagos, Wee Tracker reports

Legit.ng gathers that Adekunle said the Bitcoin ATM has a door alarm system, a remote tracker and some bio scanners, which make it more theft and vandal-proof.

Bitcoin ATM. Photo credit: Wee Tracker

Source: UGC

Daniel Adekunle. Photo credit: Wee Tracker

Source: UGC

He said: “For about 3 years now I have been working on the blockchain technology and BTMs (Bitcoin Teller Machines or Bitcoin ATMs) hardware, software and firmware most especially. I had my people (Africans) very much in mind since they are a little rigid when it comes to innovation and personal interaction(s) with high tech devices.”

In other news, a 15-year-old boy identified as Uge Chinedu has shown how creative he is by designing a building prototype.

The new building prototype the creative boy designed was completed within one week.

Chinedu lives with his mother at Okofia, Otolo, Nnewi in Anambra state.

PAY ATTENTION: Install our latest app for Android, read the best news on Nigeria’s #1 news app

Meanwhile, Legit.ng previously reported that Simple Azenabor, a Nigerian based in Japan and an app developer, created a Nigerian chat app called SoftTalk.

According to Azenabor, who is also the founder of Prime Time Telecoms, a communication company in Japan, the chatting app will also allow users to send instant messages, videos, audios and files.

The app was said to have launched on August 29, 2018 at a grand ceremony at Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos.

The messaging app works like the popular WhatsApp where signing up requires users’ mobile number and does not demand much data to start running.

Azenabor told the media that what makes the app different from other messaging apps is that it is targeted at giving users a different experience than what is presently obtainable.

NAIJ.com (naija.ng) -> Legit.ng We have updated to serve you better

I want to build a television set -13-yr-old aspiring engineer | Legit TV