State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi spoke with Coordinating Minister Luhut Pandjaitan, the Indonesian government's coordinator for cooperation with China, on the phone on 7 February.

On behalf of the Indonesian government and people, Luhut expressed deepest sympathy to the Chinese people over the novel coronavirus outbreak. He praised China's effort and policy to contain the spread of the epidemic, and said that if this happens in another country, not in China, the spread might be even wider and faster. Indonesia feels for China during this period of adversities and would like to do its best to support its friends in China. Indonesia strongly believes that under the leadership of President Xi Jinping, China will overcome this epidemic.

Wang thanked the government and various communities in Indonesia for their support and assistance to China. He noted the joint efforts of all Chinese people to race against time and win this fight against the ferocious epidemic. China has leveraged its institutional advantage to put in place a nationwide mechanism and adopted the most thorough and rigorous measures. Our efforts are producing results. We are fully confident that with the resilience of the Chinese people and strong support from friendly countries, we will prevail over the epidemic.

Wang said that the epidemic will not change the internal driving force and resilience of the Chinese economy and its good momentum will continue in the long run. We have the ability to minimize the impact of the outbreak and maintain sustained and stable economic growth.

Wang said that guided by the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind, the Chinese government not only cares about the health of its own people but also takes a responsible attitude towards the health of other people around the world. China will continue to act on the principle of openness and transparency, share information with Indonesia and other countries in a timely manner, and address the legitimate concerns of all sides.

Wang noted that confirmed cases outside China hardly account for one percent of the total. This speaks volumes about China's enormous efforts. WHO Director-General has spoken highly of China's prevention and control measures and its contribution to global public health. WHO has also made it clear that it does not recommend any travel or trade restrictions against China, and the International Civil Aviation Organization has urged countries to follow WHO's recommendations. China expects and believes that Indonesia will respect the professional advice of the international organizations and maintain the steady growth of its relations and practical cooperation with China.