The Asean Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP), which was drafted when Thailand was at the helm of the organisation, has been praised for laying down the foundation for infrastructure development in the region.

Kitti Prasirtsuk, Thammasat University's vice rector for international affairs, said the AOIP should be considered as an achievement, as it would be more difficult to hammer out a comparable outlook under Vietnam's chairmanship.

"Thailand is more neutral in terms of its relationship with China, the US, and other major powers in the region. It is easier for Thailand to lead the discussion and work towards the adoption of the AOIP, which emphasises cooperation between many countries," he said.

"This position is quite useful, especially when taking into account China's Belt and Road Initiative [BRI] and other Indo-Pacific strategies."

The remarks were made at a forum titled "Challenges and Chances for Asia Pacific in the Coming Years", held at the Faculty of Political Science at Thammasat University at Thaprachan Campus yesterday.

Assoc Prof Kitti said AOIP's inclusive nature will allow Asean to work together with China and Japan on developing the region's infrastructure.

"I am delighted when Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visited Beijing and met Chinese President Xi Jinping last year. They pledged to work together on infrastructure in third countries," he said.

"I think what both of them had in mind is probably Thailand, because we will welcome two train systems in the future -- one from China and another one from Japan. It will create a room for Japan and China to work together."

Meanwhile, former Japanese Ambassador to the United States, Ichiro Fujisaki, voiced support for the AOIP, stressing Japan's readiness to work with the bloc and China on infrastructure.

"Many of infrastructure projects started without the AOIP and [Japan's] FOIP and now they are seen as part of them. As for China's BRI, Japan has been saying as long as it has transparency and financial sustainability, we will support it," he said.

When asked about Japan's role in Southeast Asia, Mr Fujisaki, who is now the president of Nakasone Peace Institute and the American-Japan Society, said Japan has been bolstering "heart-to-heart" relations.

"It has been working out very well and it will not change. Of course, our economy is now smaller than China … but we have created a trusting relationship with Asean. No Asean countries are worried that Japan will take over Asean's infrastructure. Nothing of that sort will happen," he said.