Dividend paying stocks like Shanghai Fudan-Zhangjiang Bio-Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (HKG:1349) tend to be popular with investors, and for good reason - some research suggests a significant amount of all stock market returns come from reinvested dividends. Yet sometimes, investors buy a stock for its dividend and lose money because the share price falls by more than they earned in dividend payments.

With a 1.7% yield and a five-year payment history, investors probably think Shanghai Fudan-Zhangjiang Bio-Pharmaceutical looks like a reliable dividend stock. A low yield is generally a turn-off, but if the prospects for earnings growth were strong, investors might be pleasantly surprised by the long-term results. There are a few simple ways to reduce the risks of buying Shanghai Fudan-Zhangjiang Bio-Pharmaceutical for its dividend, and we'll go through these below.

Explore this interactive chart for our latest analysis on Shanghai Fudan-Zhangjiang Bio-Pharmaceutical!

SEHK:1349 Historical Dividend Yield, February 24th 2020 More

Payout ratios

Dividends are typically paid from company earnings. If a company pays more in dividends than it earned, then the dividend might become unsustainable - hardly an ideal situation. As a result, we should always investigate whether a company can afford its dividend, measured as a percentage of a company's net income after tax. Shanghai Fudan-Zhangjiang Bio-Pharmaceutical paid out 34% of its profit as dividends, over the trailing twelve month period. A medium payout ratio strikes a good balance between paying dividends, and keeping enough back to invest in the business. Plus, there is room to increase the payout ratio over time.

We also measure dividends paid against a company's levered free cash flow, to see if enough cash was generated to cover the dividend. Shanghai Fudan-Zhangjiang Bio-Pharmaceutical paid out 13% of its free cash flow as dividends last year, which is conservative and suggests the dividend is sustainable. It's encouraging to see that the dividend is covered by both profit and cash flow. This generally suggests the dividend is sustainable, as long as earnings don't drop precipitously.

With a strong net cash balance, Shanghai Fudan-Zhangjiang Bio-Pharmaceutical investors may not have much to worry about in the near term from a dividend perspective.

Remember, you can always get a snapshot of Shanghai Fudan-Zhangjiang Bio-Pharmaceutical's latest financial position, by checking our visualisation of its financial health.

Dividend Volatility

From the perspective of an income investor who wants to earn dividends for many years, there is not much point buying a stock if its dividend is regularly cut or is not reliable. Looking at the data, we can see that Shanghai Fudan-Zhangjiang Bio-Pharmaceutical has been paying a dividend for the past five years. During the past five-year period, the first annual payment was CN¥0.05 in 2015, compared to CN¥0.07 last year. Dividends per share have grown at approximately 7.0% per year over this time. The growth in dividends has not been linear, but the CAGR is a decent approximation of the rate of change over this time frame.

A reasonable rate of dividend growth is good to see, but we're wary that the dividend history is not as solid as we'd like, having been cut at least once.

Dividend Growth Potential