Support bushfire relief by spending at these restaurants and bars in Sydney Some of the city's favourite restaurants, cafés and pubs are rallying to support organisations giving relief from the bushfire crisis.

Australia is currently experiencing an unprecedented bushfire emergency that has, at the time of writing, burned more than six million hectares of land, destroyed more than 2000 homes and killed 27 people and as many as a billion animals.

With many bushfires still burning in NSW and across Australia our thoughts are with the firefighters, their families and the communities affected by the fires. Many Sydney businesses have also stepped up to help out during the crisis, with a number of restaurants, cafés and bars hosting fundraisers.

Bel and Brio

On Thursday, January 30, Barangaroo's food and wine emporium, Bel and Brio, is hosting a bushfire relief happy hour from 4-6pm. Specials include $12 wines and mimosas, $15 Aperol Spritzes and $17 Negronis. All proceeds will be donated to the Australian Red Cross, so organise some office drinks and raise a glass for a cause.

Applejack Hospitality

All of the restaurants in the Applejack Hospitality family have joined the push to support our bushfire affected communities. Mod oz CBD brasserie Bopp and Tone, the Butler Potts Point, the Botanist in Kirribilli and SoCal Sydney will be serving specially created cocktails throughout January with $5 from every purchase going to the Australian Red Cross Disaster Relief and Recovery Fund. All venues will also have "tips for bushfire relief" bowls on their counters.

Endeavour Tap Rooms

This restuarant in the Rocks punches above its weight when it comes to craft beers and barbecue. Throughout January,Endeavour will be donating $5 from every tasting paddle sold to the Australian Red Cross Disaster Relief and Recovery Fund.

Solotel Group Restaurants

The Solotel Group and Matt Moran are undertaking a number of initiatives across their various pubs and restaurants, as well as pledging a donation of $10,000 per venue (a total of $280,000) to the Rural Fire Services in NSW and QLD. Each of the group's restaurants has introduced a Bushfire Relief Dish or Drink, with 100 per cent of proceeds from the highlighted item going to the Rural Fire Service until February 9. This includes Bea at Barrangaroo House serving a whole roast duck with barbecue quince paste, Chophouse's chocolate block, beer-battered flathead at North Bondi Fish, and other drinks and dishes at Chiswick Woollahra, Chiswick at the Gallery, Café at the Gallery, Riverbar and Kitchen, and Aria.

Lotus Dining

The restaurant group behind some of Sydney's finest authentic Chinese food is supporting the bushfire donation effort in a few ways. Madame Shanghai in Darlinghurst is offering a special $5 snack of olives and prawn crackers, with all proceeds to be donated to the NSW Rural Fire Service. Over at the Lotus Dumpling Bar in Daws Point, $1 from every dumpling order sold will be donated. All Lotus restaurants will be running a $5 ticket raffle in addition to this, with a goal of raising $8000. The grand prize, valued at over $500, includes tickets for two to a dumpling making class, a $200 dining voucher and a bottle of Gosset.

The Australian Venue Co

All 15 of the Australian Venue Co’s locations are supporting the National Bushfire Disaster Appeal. In Sydney, this includes the Winery, Untied, the Rook, Bungalow 8 and Manly Wine. The group will be donating $1 for every schooner and $2 for every pint of Furphy sold until February 1st.

Continental Deli Bar Bistro Newtown

As if we weren’t already in love with this overachieving Inner West venue (check out our five-star review). Pop down to the deli for a slice of ricotta and blueberry cake for $10, with all proceeds being donated to support our brave firies.

Bar Luca

These patty-slingers are arguably one of the biggest names in what has become a highly-competitive burger scene in Sydney. Bar Luca will be donating $2 from every burger special sold this week to the NSW Rural Fire Service. The special in question is the Big Blame, a pimped-out version of the already decadent Blame Canada Burger – which involves poutine and maple bacon – doubling up the ingredients and adding a mozzarella pattie to the mix. The donation drive will be running across all three Sydney venues – including their original city venue on Phillip Street, Loaded by BL in Newtown, BL Burgers on Oxford Street.

Arthur

There’s a special place in our hearts for Arthur, where head chef Tristan Rosier takes the wheel on a seasonal set menu. For every house spritz sold until January 19 (and possibly beyond) the restaurant will be donating 100 per cent of sales to the NSW Rural Fire Service.

Bills

This classic ’90s café chain hits all the right notes when it comes to good service, great dishes and bougie charm. Bills is donating $1 from every serving of hot cakes sold (their most popular dish) to the NSW Rural Fire Service, CFA (Country Fire Authority), Australian Red Cross and WIRES. You also have the option to add a voluntary $1 donation to your bill.

Lankan Filling Station

This little casual Sri Lankan diner is a stand-out gem in Darlinghurst, which also happened to scoop the Restaurant of the Year and Best Casual Dining Restaurant awards at the 2019 Time Out Food Awards. In January, Lankan is giving back, with all profits from the sale of their cashew curry being donated to the Fire Relief Fund for First Nations Communities.

Nel

This inventive and good value fine diner has taken out the People’s Choice in the Time Out Food Awards on more than one occasion. Nel will be donating $5 from every sale of their Australian-themed summer degustation menu to Rural Aid, giving back to the farmers that supply their produce. The degustation includes reinvented Aussie classics, including the Bunnings sausage sizzle, smashed avo, Weetbix and milk and the potato scallop - but fancy.

Want to donate directly?

National

Red Cross Disaster Relief and Recovery

Fire Relief Fund for First Nations Communities

Rural Aid

National Bushfire Disaster Appeal

CFA (Country Fire Authority)

NSW

Rural Fire Service (RFS)

Wildlife Information Rescue and Education Service (WIRES)

You can also support regional businesses impacted by the bushfire crisis. Read our report here.