



Academy Museum Director Bill Kramer speaks during the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures Media Tour, in Los Angeles, California on February 7, 2020. VALERIE MACON / AFP.



LOS ANGELES (AFP) .- Los Angeles' long-awaited museum dedicated to the magic of movies will open this year and feature tributes to the late Kirk Douglas. The idea for an Academy Museum of Motion Pictures was first floated nearly a century ago, and its current futuristic incarnation has been beset by delays. On the eve of the Academy's flagship event -- the Oscars -- a nearly completed site was opened to journalists on Friday, showcasing a gleaming sphere made of glass, steel and concrete containing a state-of-the-art 1,000-seat theater. The orb-like structure -- designed by Renzo Piano "as if it were floating" to symbolize "the fantasy and magic of the movies" -- is connected by sky bridges to a converted department store housing the main galleries. Among the 13 million photographs, scripts, costumes, props and more in the Academy's collections are Judy Garland's ruby slippers from "Wizard of Oz," Bela Lugosi's cape from 1931's "Dracula" -- and items related to Douglas. "We're close with ... Los Angeles' long-awaited museum dedicated to the magic of movies will open this year and feature tributes to the late Kirk Douglas. The idea for an Academy Museum of Motion Pictures was first floated nearly a century ago, and its current futuristic incarnation has been beset by delays. On the eve of the Academy's flagship event -- the Oscars -- a nearly completed site was opened to journalists on Friday, showcasing a gleaming sphere made of glass, steel and concrete containing a state-of-the-art 1,000-seat theater. The orb-like structure -- designed by Renzo Piano "as if it were floating" to symbolize "the fantasy and magic of the movies" -- is connected by sky bridges to a converted department store housing the main galleries. Among the 13 million photographs, scripts, costumes, props and more in the Academy's collections are Judy Garland's ruby slippers from "Wizard of Oz," Bela Lugosi's cape from 1931's "Dracula" -- and items related to Douglas. "We're close with ... More





Mariette Rissenbeek and Carlo Chatrian, the co-directors of the Berlin Film Festival. Lena Mucha/ The New York Times.



by Thomas Rogers



BERLIN (NYT NEWS SERVICE ) .- On a recent morning, the Berlin Film Festival’s two new co-directors were arguing about accents — specifically, what kind of voice should introduce the filmmakers in live announcements at this year’s event. “On this issue, I like an accent,” said Carlo Chatrian, its artistic director, adding that a non-native English speaker would best reflect Berlin’s cosmopolitan identity. “But we already have so many accents,” protested Mariette Rissenbeek, its executive director. When another team member floated the idea of a German person introducing the films in broken English, Rissenbeek winced. “No, no, no,” she said. “It cannot, under any circumstances, be embarrassing.” After erupting into laughter, the group agreed. This year’s Berlinale, as the festival is often called, will be its first overseen by not one but two leaders — an arrangement that proponents say allows specialists to focus on areas of expertise rather than h ... On a recent morning, the Berlin Film Festival’s two new co-directors were arguing about accents — specifically, what kind of voice should introduce the filmmakers in live announcements at this year’s event. “On this issue, I like an accent,” said Carlo Chatrian, its artistic director, adding that a non-native English speaker would best reflect Berlin’s cosmopolitan identity. “But we already have so many accents,” protested Mariette Rissenbeek, its executive director. When another team member floated the idea of a German person introducing the films in broken English, Rissenbeek winced. “No, no, no,” she said. “It cannot, under any circumstances, be embarrassing.” After erupting into laughter, the group agreed. This year’s Berlinale, as the festival is often called, will be its first overseen by not one but two leaders — an arrangement that proponents say allows specialists to focus on areas of expertise rather than h ... More