



Rembrandt van Rijn (Dutch, 1606–1669), Self-Portrait, about 1629, oil on panel, 17-1/2 × 13-1/2 × 3/4 in. (panel). Indianapolis Museum of Art at Newfields, Courtesy of The Clowes Fund, C10063.



INDIANAPOLIS, IND .- For the first time in history, 60 European masterworks from the For the first time in history, 60 European masterworks from the Indianapolis Museum of Art ’s collection traveled to China in the exhibition, Rembrandt to Monet: 500 Years of European Painting from the Clowes Collection and the Indianapolis Museum of Art. The exhibition encompasses the most influential periods and schools of European art history. Highlights include works by Titian, Rubens, Rembrandt, Goya, Gauguin and Monet, among others. This international exhibition is curated by Kjell Wangensteen, PhD., Assistant Curator of European Art at Newfields. The paintings were selected for their exceptional quality and for their ability to clearly convey the broader narrative of European art history, from the early Italian Renaissance through nineteenth-century French Impressionism. Among the most notable works in the show are, Rembrandt van ... More





Written in Middle English, the work is a guide for hermits, anchorites and religious recluses.



LONDON .- Arts Minister Helen Whately has placed an export bar on a 15th century Middle English decorated manuscript designed to act as a guide for those entering the life of a religious hermit. ‘The Myrowr of Recluses’ is believed to have been written in the early 1400s in London by an unknown scribe and is a translation of the Latin ‘Speculum inclusorum’. It is designed to be a guide for anchorites or hermits who were religious recluses that retreated from society in order to dedicate their lives to prayer and contemplation. It is estimated that there were around 200 anchorites or hermits in England in the 13th century with more women entering the life than men, however there is little evidence as to how many were living at the time the manuscript was written. The work details the reasons - both virtuous and in some cases misguided - that people seek to become an anchorite, the activities of an anchorite’s life - principally prayer, meditation and ... Arts Minister Helen Whately has placed an export bar on a 15th century Middle English decorated manuscript designed to act as a guide for those entering the life of a religious hermit. ‘The Myrowr of Recluses’ is believed to have been written in the early 1400s in London by an unknown scribe and is a translation of the Latin ‘Speculum inclusorum’. It is designed to be a guide for anchorites or hermits who were religious recluses that retreated from society in order to dedicate their lives to prayer and contemplation. It is estimated that there were around 200 anchorites or hermits in England in the 13th century with more women entering the life than men, however there is little evidence as to how many were living at the time the manuscript was written. The work details the reasons - both virtuous and in some cases misguided - that people seek to become an anchorite, the activities of an anchorite’s life - principally prayer, meditation and ... More