



Judy Francis Zankel at a gala for Carnegie Hall, in New York, June 20, 2017. Rebecca Smeyne/The New York Times.



by Robin Pogrebin



NEW YORK (NYT NEWS SERVICE ) .- Six trustees, among them the prominent designer David Rockwell, have resigned from the board of the Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum to protest the removal of the museum’s director, Caroline Baumann, following an investigation into issues including her 2018 wedding. Baumann was forced to resign Feb. 7 after an investigation by the Smithsonian’s inspector general into how Baumann procured her dress and the venue for the ceremony. It was unclear whether there were additional allegations. According to two people familiar with the Smithsonian’s decision-making, the inspector general found the appearance of a conflict of interest, but several board members said they believed the punishment was unwarranted. “Caroline’s treatment violates every principle of decency, and I feel that remaining on the board tacitly condones this behavior,” board secretary, Judy Francis Zankel, wrote Sunday ... Six trustees, among them the prominent designer David Rockwell, have resigned from the board of the Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum to protest the removal of the museum’s director, Caroline Baumann, following an investigation into issues including her 2018 wedding. Baumann was forced to resign Feb. 7 after an investigation by the Smithsonian’s inspector general into how Baumann procured her dress and the venue for the ceremony. It was unclear whether there were additional allegations. According to two people familiar with the Smithsonian’s decision-making, the inspector general found the appearance of a conflict of interest, but several board members said they believed the punishment was unwarranted. “Caroline’s treatment violates every principle of decency, and I feel that remaining on the board tacitly condones this behavior,” board secretary, Judy Francis Zankel, wrote Sunday ... More





Friedrich Vordemberge-Gildewart, Konstruktion No. 5, 1924, oil on canvas and wood, 89 x 85 cm, Kunstmuseum Den Haag © Vordemberge-Gildewart Foundation, Rapperswil / Schweiz.



THE HAGUE .- In 1925 German artist Friedrich Vordemberge-Gildewart (1899 - 1962) gave two of his paintings to Theo van Doesburg in exchange for his Counter-Composition VI. One of these paintings, Konstruktion No. 5, was recently added to In 1925 German artist Friedrich Vordemberge-Gildewart (1899 - 1962) gave two of his paintings to Theo van Doesburg in exchange for his Counter-Composition VI. One of these paintings, Konstruktion No. 5, was recently added to Kunstmuseum Den Haag ’s collection. The purchase was assisted by the Mondrian Fund and the Rembrandt Association, courtesy of its E.A. and C.M. Alkema-Hilbrands Fund and its Modern Art Fund. The painting will be on display in the museum’s Mondrian & De Stijl wing from 29 February, as part of the exhibition Friedrich Vordemberge-Gildewart - Between Constructivism and De Stijl. At the same time, the neighbouring GEM museum of contemporary art will be showcasing work by the artists nominated for the Vordemberge Gildewart Award 2020, a European prize for artists under the age of 35. Friedrich Vordemberge-Gildewart did not paint his canvases, he constructed them, using pencil sketches and paper cut-ou ... More