The Minister of Food and Agriculture, Dr. Owusu Afriyie Akoto, has approached the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) over the possibility for some budgetary support toward government’s implementation of its agriculture policies aimed at strengthening the country’s tree crop production.

The minister, speaking in an interview after meeting with Director-General of the FAO, Dr. Qu Dongyu, disclosed among others that government is keen on transforming the country’s agric sector, which heavily relies on cocoa, to include other tree crops.

The six other tree crops include the oil palm, coffee, cashew, coconut, rubber and shea crops, and are being targetted for rapid development; which according to the Minister will require advancing the capacity of research institutions to expand the planting materials.

It was against this backdrop that the minister particularly made a request for support toward implementing one of Ghana’s flagship policies, ‘Planting for Export and Rural Development’ (PERD), which seeks to expand the country’s tree crops export capacity.

“Basically, Ghana is a mono-crop economy; cocoa has been the dominant crop for the last 130 years and we are trying to change that by diversifying; selecting six other tree crops for rapid development,” Dr. Akoto said.

The PERD programme is aimed at diversifying the country’s economy from cocoa being the only major agricultural export commodity by investing in six other tree crops: namely Coffee, Shea, Rubber, Cashew, Oil Palm and Coconut.

The minister expressed optimism that with his vast experience in rural development, having served as the Vice-Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, “Dr. Qu Dongyu is in the best position to help us develop our agricultural potential.

“China has the biggest rural agricultural economy in the world, and with Dr. Qu Dongyu having served in that capacity for such a long time his portfolio was to improve the economic situation of rural folks; so, I have no doubt at all about his ability to support us in that direction,” Dr. Owusu Afriyie Akoto noted.

The minister further pointed out that effective implementation of the PERD programme will require a budget of over US$40million, which will go into resourcing six selected research institutions in the country – enabling them to produce adequate materials to meet the target.

The Director-General of FAO is said to have assured the minister that the organisation’s Investment Centre will liaise with the ministry to conduct feasibility studies on how to secure donor funding for the programme.

The interactions with the FAO-head took place at the back of the 43rd Session of the Governing Council of the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations (UN) held in Rome, Italy.

The Agric Minister also held high-level meetings with the Heads of all the UN Agencies to discuss investment opportunities for Ghana’s agricultural sector.