The best overall

Nordstrom

The Hestra Utsjo Gloves are made from buttery soft yet durable Scandinavian elk leather, and the wool trim ensures there's no gap between your jacket and glove.

The fourth-generation family-owned Swedish glove maker Hestra is best known for its ski gloves, but the company also makes some exceptional dress style gloves as well. The Utsjo Glove is a pre-curved, supple glove made from Scandinavian elk leather, known for its durability and natural insulating properties.

Unlike most of the gloves in this review, these are both lined and insulated, so they'll keep your hands really warm even in frigid weather. I've worn mine when the temperature has been in the teens and my hands stayed warm, even as the rest of me definitely did not.

The gloves are lined with soft brushed polyester and insulated with PrimaLoft Gold, a patented synthetic alternative to goose down that was developed for the U.S. Army in the 1980s. Finally, the gloves are trimmed in wool so there's no gap between your jacket and gloves. They come in a variety of unique colors from vibrant orange to deep midnight blue.

I've gotten a ton of compliments on mine, not only for their design and rich color but for the softness of the leather. While these are nice enough to wear as dress gloves, because of the added insulation they are bulkier than other gloves in this guide. That being said, the extra warmth will dispel any misgivings you might have.

Hestra has been around since 1936 and does all its own design, materials sourcing, and development. The company sources its materials from North American deerskin, Scandinavian elk leather, and Ethiopian sheep. While its higher-end gloves are made in Europe, they also own factories in China where the Utsjo and other styles are made. Because they own the factories, they have tight control over the production chain and it shows. The gloves are really well made and built to last.

Pros: Beautifully crafted, made from supple Scandinavian elk leather, incredibly warm, luxuriously soft lining

Cons: For dress-style gloves, they're a little bulky