376 SHARES Share Tweet

If you’ve ever been interested in cryptocurrency trading, or just wanted to know more about the industry, it’s almost impossible that you didn’t find the Winklevoss twins at some point. If you type “greatest cryptocurrency investors” in your internet search engine, these two guys will definitely appear on that list.

However, apart from trading and investing in cryptocurrencies, the Winklevoss brothers are known as highly successful entrepreneurs and first Bitcoin billionaires. We hope this is a sufficient amount of information to keep you interested in continuing to read our article today. If so, below you will be able to find some very interesting information about the most famous identical twin brothers such as details from their childhood, career and of course net worth. Well, if you’re ready, let’s get started.

Early Life

As we said, the Winklevoss twins are probably the most famous and successful identical twins in the world. Brothers named Cameron and Tyler were born on August 21, 1981, in Southampton, New York, United States. Yet, for most of her childhood, the twins spent in Greenwich, Connecticut. Their father, Howard Winklevoss, is a professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, while their mother name is Carol Winklevoss.

It is important to note that the brothers attended Greenwich Country Day School, as well as the Brunswick School. Subsequently, Tyler and Cameron enrolled at Harvard University, where they graduated in 2004 with a degree in economics. This probably later affected their smart investment and cryptocurrency trading.

Career

The Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss gained the most popularity thanks to investing in the most popular cryptocurrency, Bitcoin. However, before the advent of BTC, the twins had some ideas for starting a business. If you’ve ever heard of ConnectU, it was their social networking idea that is very similar to today’s Facebook. This social network was launched in 2002, and was originally called HavardConnect. However, the name was changed to ConnectU later.

This case is very interesting because the Winklevoss brothers contacted Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, to work with them on this project. However, Zuckerberg stole their idea and started the most popular social network in the world today. The culmination of this legal problem came in 2008 when the Facebook CEO had to pay them $65 million in compensation.

Later, they cleverly used this money and invested in BTC and other cryptocurrencies. Cameron and Tyler are now considered one of the largest cryptocurrency investors in the world and first Bitcoin billionaires. Interestingly, the brothers participated in the Beijing Olympics the same year, where they finished 6th in the men’s pair rowing finals.

Winklevoss Net Worth

According to recent estimates, the Winklevoss twins have a reserve of around 115,000 Bitcoins. This means that their wealth is multi-billionaire. Also, their net worth in 2020 is roughly $1.35 billion. In this way, justice is somehow satisfied after the ConnectU case.



