Chinese President Xi Jinping's upcoming visit to Myanmar from Friday to Saturday, also Xi's first state visit this year, will usher in a new era of China-Myanmar relations, said U Khin Maung Lynn, Joint Secretary of the Myanmar Institute of Strategic and International Studies (MISIS).

The teaching building of a high school donated by the China-Myanmar oil and gas pipeline project in Naypyidaw, capital city of Myanmar. Photo by Sun Guangyong from People's Daily

Xi’s visit is of great significance as the year 2020 marks the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the diplomatic relations between China and Myanmar, U Khin Maung Lynn said, adding that the Burmese people look forward to the visit of the Chinese president.

The MISIS belongs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Myanmar and is a think-tank that carries out research on the foreign policy and international issues of Myanmar.

He pointed out that Myanmar and China have formed a deep friendship in history and the senior leaders of the two countries have frequently paid visits to each other's country.

Xi's visit this time will certainly deepen the "Paukphaw" (fraternal) friendship between the two peoples and vitalize the traditional relations in the new era.

For a long time, China has strongly supported Myanmar in developing the national economy and improving the livelihood of the people, U Khin Maung Lynn noted.

A project constructed by the State Grid Corporation of China that links the Kachin State, the northernmost state of Myanmar, with the 230-KV main power grid. Photo by Sun Guangyong from People's Daily

While Myanmar is striving to facilitate economic growth, Xi's visit will strengthen the economic and trade exchanges between the two countries and promote more solid progress in major projects such as the China-Myanmar Economic Corridor (CMEC).

According to him, Myanmar boasts different kinds of natural resources, yet it has failed to fully exploit such resources for many reasons. China, however, gains strengths in constructing infrastructure and developing and utilizing resources, which leaves great potential for the two countries to cooperate.

The CMEC, which serves as a great opportunity for China and Myanmar to achieve win-win results, will significantly improve the life of the people along the route, he said.

U Khin Maung Lynn thinks that the cooperation of China and Myanmar on building the Belt and Road will not only benefit Myanmar, but will generate more development opportunities for the entire Southeast Asia and even Asia.

The national flags of China and Myanmar fly high in the street of Myanmar before Chinese President Xi Jinping’s visit to Myanmar. Photo by Sun Guangyong from People's Daily

The joint construction of the Belt and Road is also a poverty reduction project in the region, he said, explaining that the infrastructure connectivity can help people in many remote areas of Myanmar to get rid of poverty.

Xi's visit will promote the bilateral cooperation within the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), he noted.

While the Communist Party of China and the Chinese government along with the Chinese people are trying to secure a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, Myanmar hopes to make use of Xi's visit and strengthen its cooperation with China to achieve national stability and comprehensive development at an earlier date, said the expert.

He pointed out that he really admires the concept of building a community with a shared future for mankind. No country can seek development on its own in the face of serious challenges in the era of economic globalization, he said, adding that Myanmar is willing to forge a brotherly friendship of shared destiny and fortune with China and work together to build a community with a shared future for mankind.