MSQ Partners-owned design and branding agency Holmes & Marchant, has appointed Paul Galesloot as its new Global Chief Executive Officer. Galesloot, who was previously CEO at Cowan Asia, will across the agency’s Shanghai, Singapore and New York offices.

He replaces Addison James, who is standing down from a full-time role in the agency after 11 years. James will relocate to the UK in March, but will remain involved with H&M in an advisory capacity.

Galesloot will report directly to MSQ’s CEO and Founder Peter Reid and will work closely with the rest of the Holmes & Marchant leadership team, including Lingzi Yue, the Managing Director of Holmes & Marchant Shanghai, Celeste Cheong, the Managing Director of Holmes & Marchant Singapore and Matt Clements, General Manager of Holmes & Marchant New York.

Galesloot has extensive experience working in branding and communications across Asia, Australia and Europe. He began his career in the UK, working in the marketing departments of the likes of global sportwear brand Umbro and internet start-up 365 Media. He moved to Australia in 2003, spending time at a variety of design and advertising agencies before joining the global design consultancy Cowan as a Strategy Director in August 2010.

- Advertisement -

He moved to Cowan’s Shanghai office to become Managing Director of Cowan China in 2012, and was named Chief Executive of Cowan’s overall Asia operations in 2016.

“Paul brings great energy and the perfect blend of experience to take the agency onto the next level, driving further new business growth, broadening our service offer and playing a key role in developing MSQ’s joined-up offer across Asia,” said Reid.

“I would also like to take the opportunity to thank Addison for all his efforts over the past decade. The agency has had an amazing run under his stewardship, from its roots as a small agency in Singapore to the preeminent force in design in the region – and much of this success is down to him.”

Galesloot added: “It is a great time to join H&M; they have exceptional strength across Asia and collaborate closely with their offices in New York and London. I have been impressed with the levels of professionalism throughout the organization. What’s more, the MSQ vision of rolling out their unique client-centric, a multi-disciplinary approach is very aligned with my views on where the industry is heading. I have been impressed with the calibre of people throughout the MSQ agencies and am genuinely excited to get started.”

Holmes & Marchant currently works with global brand owners including Unilever, Nestle and Mondelez. It has offices in Shanghai, Singapore, New York as well as in London, where it aligns to the award-winning branding agency Lloyd Northover.