KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia-China relations will see another leap this year based on all the positive indicators, says Chinese ambassador to Malaysia Bai Tian.

One major positive news for Malaysia is that Beijing will be participating in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (Apec) Summit and Forum this year.

“Our top leaders have indicated that they will attend the Apec 2020 meeting later this year and we will give strong support to Malaysia in hosting the event.

“This is a very important international event. We have successfully organised one in China and will render our contributions to the Apec meeting here, ” he told several media organisations in a press conference on Monday.

Apec reportedly represents 60% of the world’s gross domestic product, valued at US$48 trillion, and 47% of the global trade, worth US$22 trillion.

Founding members of Apec include Malaysia, Australia, Brunei, Canada, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and the United States.

“I see China-Malaysia ties, which have a strong foundation and potential to strengthen further,

getting even better this year. Our trade and tourism data last year are positive indicators, ” said the envoy.

In the first 11 months of last year, Malaysia-China bilateral trade posted US$111bil (RM455bil), higher than the 2018’s total of US$108.66bil (RM443bil).

Meanwhile, Bai Tian projected tourist arrivals from China to Malaysia to surge and hit four million this year as Kuala Lumpur has allowed visa exemptions of up to 15 days for Chinese and Indian tourists this year.

Chinese tourist arrivals to Malaysia exceeded three million last year, higher than 2018’s figure with just under three million.

But the envoy said at the moment, there was no indication from Beijing yet to reciprocate Malaysia’s gesture in visa relaxation.

As only about one million Malaysians visit China a year, the Chinese embassy will be meeting local tourism players on how to attract more Malaysians, especially Muslims.

One suggestion is to promote tourism in Xinjiang, where there are more than 10 million Muslims.

Bai Tian also noted that as the two countries would be kicking off the 2020 China-Malaysia Cultural Tourism Year, many cultural activities were being lined up to promote friendship and exchanges.

On Jan 19, a big Chinese cultural delegation will be performing at Istana Budaya.