The popular Wild Irish Show returns to Big Horse Vineyards in Lewistown Friday, March 13 and Saturday, March 14.

LEWISTOWN-The popular Wild Irish Show returns to Big Horse Vineyards in Lewistown Friday, March 13 and Saturday, March 14. The evening includes Irish music, tales, and features a band of 10 performers. This year’s show includes audience favorites as well as several new songs and tales. Reservations may be made by calling and leaving a message, (309) 547-2070.

The Wild Irish show transforms Big Horse Vineyards into an Irish Pub atmosphere complete with Irish food, drink, and a full evening of Irish songs and laughter.

The 2017 and 2018 original group returns with John L. Davis, Chad Murphy, Bob Juraco, Carol Davis, Drew Ponder, Matt Buczko, Ray Crow and Tony Roberts.

New to the group for 2020 are Steve Harris, a fiddle player with Stone Cold Cowboys, and Canton native Colin Davis.

Dinner and show are available for $39.95. Dinner will be a complete Corned Beef and Cabbage meal with an additional entrée selection for those who prefer a non-Irish choice. Doors and bar open at 5 p.m.

Meal begins at 6 p.m. with show to follow. Seating assignments are made on a first call basis. To make reservations, call (309) 547-2070.

“We have the perfect blend of raucous pub tunes and poignant songs of home and war,” said John Davis.

“We have kept some of our audience’s most popular songs and added some new. The clapping, foot stomping, and singing by audience members adds a lot of fun for us. For a couple of hours, audience members may actually feel like they are in a Galway pub.”

In addition to singing, the troupe members also play multiple instruments throughout the evening including accordion, fiddle, tin whistle, harp, guitar, mandolin, banjo, and a variety of percussion instruments.

“We look forward to seeing our old friends from the past as well as new faces,” Davis said.

“The best way to celebrate St. Paddy’s Day, whether you’re Irish or not, is to spend it with good friends, good food and drink, and fun music.”

In addition to calling (309) 547-2070, Big Horse Vineyards may also be found on FB and at bighorsevineyards.com/events.