Poco is now an independent brand, says Xiaomi India

Xiaomi India has confirmed that the Poco brand that started as a sub-brand to the Chinese giant will now be an independent brand. What this means is Poco is now a standalone brand.

To recall, Xiaomi launched the Poco F1 under the Poco sub-brand back in 2018, and Poco fans have been asking for a successor to the smartphone for over a year now. With the announcement, we can expect Poco to finally bring the successor to the Poco F1 in India soon. This will also mean that Xiaomi's new Poco independent brand can take on rival phones from OnePlus, Realme, Samsung, Oppo, and Vivo.

"Poco started as a sub-brand of Xiaomi in 2018 with a small team. Its first smartphone, Poco F1, was incredibly successful and remained an extremely popular phone till date. With this restructuring, Poco will run independently of Xiaomi with its own team and go to market strategy," the company said in a statement on Friday.

Hey POCO Fans, it has been exactly a year since we launched #POCOF1, the champion of speed. It has been an awesome 1 year. Here is a glimpse of this amazing year that has been for POCO. Lot of learnings and lot more to do!! pic.twitter.com/NvPDmWlDR2 — C Manmohan (@cmanmohan) August 22, 2019

Announcing the new news, Manu Jain, Xiaomi Vice President and Xiaomi India Managing Director, said, “What started as a sub-brand in Poco has grown into its own identity in a short span of time. Poco F1 is an extremely popular phone across user groups and remains a top contender in its category even in 2020. We feel the time is right to let Poco operate on its own now, which is why we’re excited to announce that Poco will spin-off as an independent brand. Join me in wishing the Poco team the best!”

It's also worth noting that Xiaomi India no longer lists or sells the Poco F1 on its official website. While this could mean that the brand will get its dedicated website but this also wide opens the window for Poco to launch various category products, we will have to wait to see what Poco (or Xiaomi) have in mind for 2020.

To refresh, the Poco F1 was launched in 2018 as the flagship-grade smartphone from Xiaomi and took on the premium devices in the year. It packed Snapdragon 845 SoC coupled with up to 8GB of RAM and 128GB storage. It sports a 12-megapixel primary sensor alongside a 5-megapixel secondary sensor while there's a 20-megapixel selfie camera. It packs stereo speakers and a massive 4000mAh battery.