© Provided by Evening Standard

Chinese New Year this year will run from January 25 to February 8th.

Unlike many holidays, it falls on a different date each year based on the first day of the Chinese Lunar Calendar.

2020 will be the Year of the Rat, the animal zodiac sign that plays an integral part in Chinese culture.

Here, we look at everything you need to know about Chinese New Year:

© Provided by Evening Standard Performers taking part in a parade involving costumes, lion dances and floats, during Chinese New Year celebrations in Chinatown, London, which marks the Year of the Pig. (PA)

When is Chinese New Year and Why?

Chinese New Year is the festival that celebrates the beginning of a new year on the traditional Chinese lunar calendar.

This year the date falls on January 25, 2020. Every year it will falls somewhere between January 21 and February 20.

The festival is usually referred to as the Spring Festival in mainland China, and is one of several lunar New Years celebrated in different Asian countries.

How is it celebrated?

Traditionally, the 16 days from Chinese New Year's Eve until the Lantern Festival each had a special celebration activity.

On the evening of the 15th day of the first lunar month as a full moon rises - this year on February 8 - families gather for dinner.

They then go out, watch fireworks and light lanterns, which are put up for decoration, let loose to fly or floated in rivers.

© Provided by Evening Standard Performers taking part in a parade involving costumes, lion dances and floats, during Chinese New Year celebrations in Chinatown, London, which marks the Year of the Pig. (PA)

Red decorations are everywhere during Chinese New Year. As a lucky colour in China, billions of "red envelopes" are sent to family and friends each year for the holiday.

More than two billion people celebrate the festival in some way worldwide.

It is also a national holiday in countries like Indonesia, Vietnam, South Korea, Malaysia, North Korea, Tawain and many more.

What is the zodiac sign for 2020 and why?

2020 is the zodiac Year of the Rat out of 12 Chinese zodiac animals. It comes after 2019, the Year of the Pig.

In order, the 12 animals are Rat, Ox, Tiger, Rabbit, Dragon, Snake, Horse, Goat, Monkey, Rooster, Dog and Pig.

© Provided by Evening Standard Spectators watch as performers move a traditional Chinese dragon through the crowd as they take part in the Chinese New Year parade through central London. (REUTERS)

Your zodiac animal is decided by your birth year, which traditionally helps forecast your fortune, career choice, marriage compatibility and much more.

Chinese New Year in London

Apart from Asia, the festival is celebrated in cities around the world, especially where there are large Chinese populations.

In London, a public celebration takes place in Chinatown, Trafalgar Square and the West End.

The free event takes place at the start of the festival on Sunday, January 26.

Thousands of people will descend on central London to watch the colourful parade, and stage performances as well as sampling Chinese food.