Designer Profile: Maria Ogrydziak of Maria Ogrydziak Architecture

Before she became an architect, Maria Ogrydziak studied Chinese painting and brush strokes. This landscape she painted hangs in her firm's office in Davis. Before she became an architect, Maria Ogrydziak studied Chinese painting and brush strokes. This landscape she painted hangs in her firm's office in Davis. Photo: Maria Ogrydziak Architecture Photo: Maria Ogrydziak Architecture Image 1 of / 20 Caption Close Designer Profile: Maria Ogrydziak of Maria Ogrydziak Architecture 1 / 20 Back to Gallery

With the soul of an artist, the precision of a mathematician and the heart of an altruist, architect Maria Ogrydziak has been putting her mark on Northern California’s structural landscape for more than three decades. Based in Davis, the native of Stockholm with Estonian roots has quietly accrued an impressive portfolio of custom homes, retail spaces and even places of worship.

Ogrydziak’s passion radiates through her work, largely because she feels blessed to be an architect.

“I love what I do, and I feel lucky every time I get to do a project,” she said. “Every time it’s like a new experience, and a new journey with a client. For me, the design process is a huge part of my focus, and how I get there is exciting.”

Upon moving to California in the ‘70s, Ogrydziak immediately fell in love with the Central Valley, specifically, its sky.

“The first thing I noticed in California was the sky, the blueness, its grand expanse,” she said. “Wherever I am in the Central Valley, I’m connected to the blue sky.”

She opened her firm in 1985 and has conceptualized literally hundreds of structures since then.

More Information Details Maria Ogrydziak, Principal, Maria Ogrydziak Architecture. Born in Stockholm to Estonian parents, Ogrydziak graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a degree in architecture in 1970. Prior to graduating, her fellow students voted her student body president, making her the first architecture student, the first international student and the first woman to hold the position. She also earned the Compton School Prize and Grunsfeld Traveling Scholarship Architecture Prize in 1969. Her portfolio spans more than three decades and includes custom homes, retail locations and places of worship. Ogrydziak’s designs often feature crisp lines, an abundance of natural light and seamless indoor/outdoor flow. She has piled up awards and accolades during her career. Her ambitious remodel of the Davis Food Co-op earned the American Institute of Architects San Francisco’s “Best of the Bay” and AIA California Council Honor awards. She also donates her time and insight to a variety of organizations. At the moment, Ogrydziak serves as the AIA Central Valley Chapter’s representative to the national Custom Residential Architects Network, an organization that uses forums, conventions, publications, symposiums and local events to help architects learn more about their custom residential practices. Ogrydziak is a previous president of California’s AIA Central Valley Chapter. During that time she founded and chaired the Sacramento Region Architectural Festival. In addition to being a former member of the Long Range Planing and Policy Committee for Sacramento, Ogrydziak worked as a design strategist for Zoning and Historical Design Guidelines, as well as project lead for Davis’ City Core Planning Study.

In this interview with the San Francisco Chronicle, Ogrydziak talks about her design process, her philosophy and what she’s doing to help Davis’ homeless population.

Q: What does your design process entail?

A: Someone approaches me, we talk and I go see the place where everything will happen. During that time I’m absorbing as much as possible. It’s more than just about square footage and simple descriptions, it’s about understanding why someone wants to do something—what’s their connection to the place? From there I start developing what I call a vocabulary for the site. The vocabulary incorporates all the openings, windows and connections to outdoor spaces. Sometimes the vocabulary comes through drawing from the client’s culture, or what matters to them. Sometimes it’s shapes. Eventually it comes together and becomes vocabulary that I can use to build out of conventional materials. It’s exciting when everything comes together.

Part of what’s amazing as you think about architecture or creating a building, is how these are solid entities with so many parts and objectives to meet. You can’t have multiple versions of the same thing in the same space. I’m very conscious of that, to end up with one result. But it has to be right combination of everything.

Q: How would you define your architectural style?

A: I’m very aware of clean lines, and windows and openings are a primary thing I try to bring into my work. The geometry comes from trying to create a place that is unique to that setting. Geometry is often reacting to and playing with what’s around me. It might be a juxtaposition to natural form or seeking a way to provide a contrast. The infusion of natural light and being able to see through to the outside is extremely important, as is connecting to the sky. So I like to use large windows to make the sky feel ever present and attainable. In a strange way, the windows provide a connection to the universe, which represents openness and infinity.

Q: You studied Chinese painting and brush strokes before becoming an architect. Does it help inform your design process?

A: That is where it all started. I lived in Taiwan for two years as a teen, because my dad was an engineer for the United Nations. I painted every day. It was an amazing experience, learning how to create landscapes with my own hand, built with complex brushwork and ink.

That has stuck with me ever since. It helped me realize how important form is and how shapes relate, and how the space between the strokes is just as important. It’s informed everything I do. My whole life has grown from there.

Q: You helped spearhead the design of Paul’s Place, a community of small-unit apartments that will provide transitional housing, permanent supportive housing and day services for Davis’ homeless population. What inspired you to take on this project, and what was the intent behind the design?

A: I think good architecture and design is the answer to nearly everything. I really believe it makes a difference. I became very interested in the homeless issue, and co-founded a group that began meeting with volunteers and people who run shelters to get their input about what the homeless need.

The idea behind Paul’s Place is that even if a residence is basic and small, it needs to have dignity and must work for the person living there. The top two floors are for housing.

They feature little gable roofs and popout windows, while the first floor is a place where people can come to receive resources and help. The design is expressive, to look more like a home than an institutional building.

The community supported the idea and we’ve raised enough money to break ground later this year. When I tell people every community can do this, I see signs of people saying maybe we can. It’s certainly a different approach from some of the other solutions I’ve seen for caring for the homeless.