As he joins the nation in celebrating Chinese New Year, President Rodrigo Duterte expressed hope for an even stronger bond between the Philippines and China.

Duterte, who has pursued friendlier ties with China amid unresolved disputes over the South China (West Philippine) Sea, highlighted the friendship and cooperation between Manila and Beijing in his Chinese New Year message.





“The fact that we are celebrating this event and embracing it as one of our own reflects the strong and inseparable bond that has been forged through centuries of friendly and beneficial relations between the Philippines and China,” he said.

“As we open a new page in our shared history, may we foster even stronger bonds of friendship with those of Chinese descent all around the world through cooperation, investments, cultural exchanges and people-to-people ties,” Duterte added.

The President also expressed hope that the Chinese-Filipino community would continue to hold sociocivic and charitable acts “that will uplift the lives of our people, especially the powerless and the marginalized.”

“This occasion celebrates new beginnings and ushers in hopes and wishes of prosperity for our nation,” Duterte said.

“Together, these small acts of kindness shall create a ripple effect that will benefit not only those belonging to your community but also countless others, creating a much bigger wave of compassion that will eventually redound to the greater good of our country,” he added.

Duterte has declared the celebration of the Chinese New Year in the country on January 25, Saturday, as a special non-working day.

Since assuming the presidency, he has sought closer ties with China, as well as with Russia, as he pursued a shift away from the Philippines’ traditional alliance with the United States.

Duterte has opted to downplay the Philippines’ maritime dispute with China in pursuit of improved economic ties with the world’s second-largest economy.

The President, nonetheless, said despite his government’s rapprochement with China, he would never surrender the country’s claims to the South China Sea and would bring up at the appropriate time Manila’s arbitration victory against Beijing.

Meanwhile, Presidential Communications Secretary Martin Andanar called on Filipinos and Chinese to “act humbly and wisely.”

“Gong Xi Fa Cai (Happy Chinese New Year)! We are one with the Filipino-Chinese community and everyone, in celebrating the Lunar New Year 2020. This year of the metal rat means the beginning of a new cycle,” Andanar said in a statement on Saturday.

For the Chinese, 2020 is the year of the rat, the first animal of the Chinese zodiac that

symbolizes a fresh start and wealth.

Andanar noted that the rat was also a sign of “prosperity” based on the Chinese zodiac.

He then expressed hope that everyone would enjoy a “prosperous, safe and healthy 2020.”

“The animal zodiac (rat) is seen as having the cleverness, successes and contentment with living a quiet and peaceful life,” Andanar said.

“Let this belief prompt us to live and act humbly and wisely, and motivate us to help each other in the face of unfortunate calamities, epidemics and other challenges that may lie ahead,” he added.

The Chinese New Year is celebrated in some parts of the country, including in Binondo, Manila, reputedly the oldest Chinatown in the world.

In China, festivities to mark the Lunar New Year have been canceled in Beijing and other major cities to control the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has claimed 41 lives.

The virus, which originated in Wuhan, China, has spread in other provinces and even countries, prompting Chinese authorities to impose travel restrictions in more than 10 cities.

The Philippines’ Department of Health said there was no case of the deadly virus in the country.

A Chinese boy from Wuhan who was previously placed under close watch of health authorities has tested negative for the virus.