Davao City Mayor Sara Duterte has expressed support to China amid the outbreak of 2019 novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19).

The Chinese Embassy said in a statement that the Presidential daughter wrote to Chinese Ambassador to the Philippines Huang Xilian to “convey support” to China’s citizens and residents amid the health situation that infected thousands in China.

“Sara commended efforts by the Chinese Central Government to strengthen public health measures to address the situation and hoped the Chinese people continue to find strength in one another and in the outpouring of support from all over the world,” the statement read.

Duterte also expressed optimism that the Chinese people will overcome the health emergency in the country.

“She believed, with the resiliency and collective efforts of the people of China, there will be an end to this emergency and that the improvement of the general well-being of the people will follow,” it further stated.

Huang met with Duterte along with his brother Davao City Vice Mayor Sebastian Duterte on 7 February.

The Davao City top officials discussed with Huang the “sound momentum of China-Philippines relations” during the meeting.

The Chinese envoy also acknowledged Davao City’s “remarkable social and economic progress” under Sara’s leadership.

Huang also briefed the local chief executive about China’s efforts to fight the respiratory disease which originated in Wuhan, China.

Huang informed the Duterte siblings that “China will continue to share information with all other countries in an open and transparent manner and enhance cooperation to jointly uphold public health security in the region and the world.”

For her part, the presidential daughter thanked China for its support in the development of Davao City.

Sara initially gave her support to China, expressing confidence in the Chinese officials’ ability to control the Wuhan virus.

“She assured that the Davao people share the Chinese people’s sufferings in fighting against the epidemic and are willing to provide assistance to the best of their ability,” the Chinese Embassy said.

“She also expressed confidence that under the strong leadership of the Chinese government, its people are bound to win the battle against the epidemic.”

To recall, Davao City — led by Sara — forged a sister city pact that will allow trade with Chongqing City in China.

She also led the celebration of China’s 70th founding anniversary of the People’s Republic of China in Davao City last year.