MINSK, 29 January (BelTA) – Relations between China and Belarus are an example for other countries to follow, BelTA learned from Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of China to Belarus Cui Qiming in Minsk on 29 January.

The ambassador underlined the mutually respectful, mutually beneficial, and equal cooperation of the two countries. “Our relations are an example for other countries to follow. China greatly appreciates such a kind attitude and results of cooperation with Belarus,” he said.

On the whole, the diplomat stressed that Belarus and China are good friends and sincere and kind partners. He remarked Belarus President Aleksandr Lukashenko had mentioned the fact in his address to the China president. The countries vigorously advance cooperation and all-weather friendship in various areas starting with trade and business ties and ending with education and culture. Belarus and China also support each other in the international scene and work together to implement the Belt and Road initiative.

BelTA reported earlier that on 29 January Belarus sent a batch of humanitarian aid to China in a bid to help the country fight an outbreak of the coronavirus. A cargo aircraft IL-76MD loaded with humanitarian cargoes left the Machulishchi airfield for Beijing. Belarus President Aleksandr Lukashenko gave the relevant instructions on 28 January.

The Belarusian head of state has also sent a heartfelt message to China President Xi Jinping. The message reads: “Dear friend, the alarming news about the spread of the coronavirus in China has shaken the people of Belarus. On behalf of the Belarusian people and myself, I express sincere condolences to the families of the virus victims and wish speedy recovery to all the sick. We admire the courage of the Chinese people and the great efficiency of the actions taken by the Chinese leadership to combat this new and dangerous disease.”

“We are ready to provide further support in overcoming these temporary difficulties. Just tell us what else we could do for you. Belarus will always be a reliable and devoted friend of the Great China!” the Belarusian leader emphasized.