Chinese New Year began Jan. 25, and celebrations will continue until the Lantern Festival on Feb. 8. In the Western new year, we make resolutions; those who observe the lunar calendar look to Chinese astrology to see what the year ahead portends.

Why not have some fun and take some inspiration from a tradition that more than a billion people observe?

The lunar calendar is based on a 12-year cycle. Each year corresponds to one of the 12 animals in the Chinese Zodiac, which says the characteristics of the animal will be the defining characteristics of those born in that year and of the year itself.

This is the Year of the Rat. Rats! Yuck, right? Don’t be too quick to judge. Rat years are generally seen as positive years. People born in the Year of the Rat are those born in 1936, 1948, 1960, 1972, 1984, 1996, 2008 and 2020.

Rat-masked revelers watch a parade during celebrations for the Chinese New Year in Madrid on Jan. 26. According to Chinese astrology, this is the Year of the Rat. More

The rat is the first sign of the Chinese zodiac and, as such, represents new beginnings. That means this year should be a good year for fresh starts. It’s a good year for startups, launching projects or products, changing directions or moving on to a new chapter in your business or your life.

Lessons from Dr. King: The three kinds of people every small business must have

Small-business owners: How to prepare for election year

Who's an employee, who's a contractor? California law could change entrepreneurs' status

How did the rat get to be the first sign of the Chinese Zodiac? Rats are seen as intelligent, clever, even sly. According to legend, the Jade Emperor held a race among animals to see the order in which they would appear in the calendar. The ox was ahead, but the rat cleverly convinced it to give him a ride on its back, then he jumped off and sprinted ahead to win the race.

So 2020 is a good year to use your intelligence and wit to sprint ahead of your competition. This doesn’t mean cheating, just being clever.

Rats are also seen as a sign of wealth. Rats have a large number of offspring, so they're associated with plenty. As a small-business owner, that’s got to be a good omen. Hopefully, your efforts will be very fruitful this year.

Rats are aligned with the idea of “hoarding.” Thus, it’s a good year for saving and being careful with your resources.

Rat years are generally seen to be good for creatives, so it could be a good year for businesspeople involved in creative pursuits, such as graphic artists, writers, editors, musicians. It might be a good year to take a more creative approach to some aspects of any business. Hey, how about a more creative Instagram feed?

Those born in the Year of the Rat are supposed to be good at paying attention to detail. Engineers, accountants, designers and the like, take note. This year’s for you.

Other characteristics associated with the rat include:

•Adaptability and resourcefulness: Aren’t all small-business people resourceful?

•Optimism: This is a characteristic of just about every entrepreneur I’ve ever met – at least when they start their businesses. Keep up your belief in yourself and your vision this year.

•Being energetic: Expect to work especially hard this year.

•High spirits: Make sure you create a positive, happy atmosphere in your business and with your team. Perhaps some team building activities this year?

•Occasional impoliteness: If that’s you, try to watch what and how you say it this year.