Editor: Ling Xiao

Lu Xiaohui (2nd, L), Consul from Overseas Chinese Affairs Office at Chinese Consulate General in Chicago, speaks during a press conference in Chicago, the United States, on January 12, 2020. A grand Spring Festival gala will be staged on February 1 in Chicago, the third largest city of the United States, for overseas Chinese and Americans to co-celebrate the Chinese New Year, organizers announced at a press conference on Sunday afternoon. [Xinhua/Wang Ping]

CHICAGO, January 13 (Xinhua) — A grand Spring Festival gala will be staged on February 1 in Chicago, the third largest city of the United States, for overseas Chinese and Americans to co-celebrate the Chinese New Year, organizers announced at a press conference on Sunday afternoon.

The 2020 "Cultures of China, Festival of Spring" gala, which is jointly presented by the Overseas Chinese Affairs Office of the State Council of China, the Federation of Returned Overseas Chinese, and Chinese American Association of Greater Chicago (CAAGC), will be held at Harris Theatre in downtown Chicago at 7 p.m. on February 1, according to CAAGC.

"We Chicago people are very lucky as the gala this time only reaches five cities across the American continent. All the leading performers are Chinese national class-A artists," said Zheng Zheng, Chairwoman of CAAGC.

Zheng mentioned prestigious Harris Theatre invited them to perform at its venue, "it's a proof that Chinese cultures are recognized by local audience and performing market."

Lu Xiaohui, Consul from Overseas Chinese Affairs Office at Chinese Consulate General in Chicago, thanked CAAGC for their preparation and hard work for the gala.

"'Cultures of China, Festival of Spring' is a great platform not only for overseas Chinese to get close to native country's culture, but promoting cultural exchange between China and the United States," said Lu.

Zheng Zheng (2nd, R), Chairwoman of the Chinese American Association of Greater Chicago (CAAGC), speaks during a press conference in Chicago, the United States, on January 12, 2020. A grand Spring Festival gala will be staged on February 1 in Chicago, the third largest city of the United States, for overseas Chinese and Americans to co-celebrate the Chinese New Year, organizers announced at a press conference on Sunday afternoon. [Xinhua/Wang Ping]

(Source: Xinhua)