As one of the oldest ancient towns in China, Hibiscus town with a history of over 2,000 years of existence (in Hunan province) has a very special and mysterious terrain because it is located upstream of a large waterfall.

About 80 km southwest of Zhangjiajie, the ancient Hibiscus Towm is located on Vuong Thon waterfall, nestled on the Rooster stream. Besides the ancient Fenghuang and Zhangjiajie, this place is a tourist attraction of Hunan province. 'Ancient town hanging on the waterfall' is a familiar name that tourists call here, by the highest point in Phu Hibiscus town.

This town is 927 meters high and 139 meters lowest place, stretching over an area of ​​42km2 of the mysterious Sung Son mountain range. Previously, the town was named Wangcun, but was later renamed Hibiscus town after the film of the same name directed by Ta Xun filmed here and this place has become famous since 1986.

Hibiscus town - Outstanding with the ancient house architecture:

The people of Hibiscus especially respect the ancient house architecture, so the ancient structures are still preserved, while the new houses still follow the old architectural style. into a homogeneous and harmonious whole. Experiencing many fluctuations of history and time, the houses in the old town have been remodeled and rebuilt, the oldest surviving architecture is the Earth King with over 300 years of history.

Tusi Palace:

Tusi Palace is a destination not to be missed when coming to Hibiscus ancient town. The work bears the architecture of Tu family and the beautiful natural scenery forms a unique dot. Besides, coming here, visitors also hear about the paranormal stories surrounding this palace

Youshui Silk Road:

The winding road that extends from Phu Dung Tran to the Youshui River Pier is called by the visitors 'Silk Road' thanks to its beautiful and majestic beauty. This is also the most popular and ‘check-in’ path in Phu Dung town

Traditional craft villages:

In addition to tourism, local people also develop a number of other craft villages such as cardamom cultivation, smoked meat, making noodles, horn making, rolling cigarettes ... Since ancient times, the Turks Gia has devised ways to preserve meat by salting, sun-drying or hanging the kitchen. Therefore, smoked meat has long been a traditional dish and specialty of this region.

Unique customs:

Coming to Hibiscus Town, visitors will see many buffalo heads and horned objects such as combs, hair brooches, spoons ... It was because before, the time of the Five Great Ten Nations (century) X), Miao teamed up with the Turks in the fight with Han people (the most populous nation of China).

The Miao king at that time often wore a buffalo horn hat, since then the Tho Gia people began to love and worship this animal. The waterfall is the highlight of Hibiscus Town. During the night, under the shimmering lights, the ancient town appears like a fairy land in real life.

Watch : FuRong Town [芙蓉镇] in Hunan, China