Source: Xinhua| 2020-02-20 17:20:27|Editor: huaxia

Video Player Close

BEIJING, Feb. 20 (Xinhua) -- Global public health experts and officials have expressed their appreciation and support for China's medical workers in battling the novel coronavirus (COVID-19).

The Lancet medical journal released a statement on Wednesday to support the scientists, public health professionals, and medical workers of China combating COVID-19, saying their efforts are "remarkable."

"We sign this statement in solidarity with all scientists and health professionals in China who continue to save lives and protect global health during the challenge of the COVID-19 outbreak," the Lancet said. "We are all in this together, with our Chinese counterparts in the forefront, against this new viral threat."

"We invite others to join us in supporting the scientists, public health professionals, and medical professionals of Wuhan and across China," it added. "Stand with our colleagues on the frontline!"

Many public health officials have expressed their appreciation for China's arduous work. Zhandarbek Bekshin, chief state sanitary inspector of Kazakhstan, told Xinhua that China's fight against the epidemic has provided valuable knowledge to Kazakhstan.

Chinese doctors and health authorities are quickly sharing important information with the world, making a great contribution to international efforts to combat the disease, Bekshin said.

A growing number of organizations and institutions around the world have donated money and medical resources to China. Most recently, for example, Mongolian military organizations donated money on Tuesday to support China's fight against the epidemic.

"We are giving our small and warm-hearted donation to (China's) military doctors and nurses who are working hard at the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak," said Tsevegsuren Togoo, a retired Mongolian military lieutenant general, during the handover ceremony at the Chinese Embassy in Mongolia.

Last week, India's Confederation of Young Leaders (CYL) and Indian Institute of Photography jointly organized a special prayer meeting for China, with hundreds of Indian youth attending.

"I wish to salute the Chinese government and Chinese people," said CYL chairman Himadrish Suwan, who praised China's doctors and nurses for working around the clock to combat the epidemic.

Chairman of the Russia-China Friendship Association Ivan Melnikov said the Chinese government has taken all necessary countermeasures, and praised the work of Chinese doctors, who "are engaged in the dedicated struggle for the life and health of everyone."

Ali Yousif, executive director of the Arab-Chinese Friendship Societies' League, told Xinhua recently that he was grateful that the Chinese medical society has been working hard to combat COVID-19.