BEIJING, Jan. 18, 2020 /PRNewswire/ -- On January 16, 2020, the "Great Sharing, New Economy—Beijing Summit of Global Sharing Economy Forum" was held at the China National Convention Center. It was sponsored by the China General Chamber of Commerce and China Association for the Promotion of Industrial Development, organized by ToJoy, and received strategic cooperation and support from the Global Alliance of Sharing Economy (GLASE) and the Institute of Industrial Economics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, the School of Humanities and the School of Social Sciences of Tsinghua University, Renmin Business School, and the School of Management, Xi'an Jiaotong University, etc.

From the "Global TOP 10 News on Sharing Economy in 2019" list, we can see that the development of the global sharing economy in 2019 radiated from two countries, China and the US. In terms of industry, sharing mobility, sharing accommodation and other domains have been relatively mature are undergoing transitions towards profitability. In other domains, the sharing model is still in the development period. As a whole, the sharing economy is stable, with good momentum heading into 2020. More

At the Summit, Jose Maria Figueres, Executive Chairman of GLASE and former President of Costa Rica, announced the "Global TOP10 Sharing Economy News in 2019." The list was compiled by the global Sharing Economy Research Institute, and led to much discussion in global business and academic circles.

Details of the list are as follows:

1. National Information Center Issues 2019 Chinese Sharing Economy Development Report. Number of "sharing economy" participants up to 760 million.

According to the report, the trading volume of the Chinese sharing economy market in 2018 was 294.2 billion yuan, an increase of 41.6% over the previous year.

The number of Chinese sharing economy participants was about 760 million, of which about 75 million were service providers, a year-on-year increase of 7.1%.

The report forecasted that over the next three years, China's sharing economy would maintain an average annual growth rate of more than 30%.

2. Global Shared Computing Power Platform Pekka launches beta version, computation power sharing forecasted to unlock big possibilities for sharing economy.

Shared computing platform Pekka released its beta version this year, inviting users to make use of cloud computing services at a lower cost than traditional services.

Computing power sharing could be a breakthrough in the sharing economy. According to PEKKA's statement, about 68% of worldwide computer processing power is not fully utilized.

If these idle resources can be fully shared, not only will computer processing efficiency be greatly improved, but it will also promote the rapid development of cutting-edge technologies such as artificial intelligence, big data analysis, and blockchain.

3. WeWork frustrated, founder removed, Softbank and Goldman Sachs spend $11+ billion on rescue package.

In 2019, WeWork suffered a number of public relations crises, including its withdrawn IPO, and the stepping-down of founder Adam Newman.

By the end of the year, SoftBank Group and Goldman Sachs had spent over $11 billion USD to rescue the company, showing the continued financial support for the future of office sharing.

4. Sharing Economy Included into China's Government Report for Third Consecutive Year, mentioned by state leaders repeatedly

In the government work report at the National People's Congress in March 2019, Premier Li Keqiang pointed out that China aims to continue to support the growth of the platform and sharing economies.

At this year's China International Import Expo and World Internet Conference, President Xi Jinping also issued a similar statement to encourage the development of the sharing economy.