Hindi cinema magnate Amitabh Bachchan's almost two-decade-old film Aankhen will now again hit theaters. With this, the film, directed by Vipul Shah, one of the big directors of Hindi cinema, is going to overwhelm the people of China and Saudi Arabia, not just India, but the almost two decades old film 'Aankhen' by Amitabh Bachchan, the legend of Hindi cinema. Will knock theaters doors. Apart from this, the film, directed by Vipul Shah, one of the big directors of Hindi cinema, is now going to overwhelm the people of China and Saudi Arabia, not India.

Box Office Collection: Ajay Devgn's Tanaji became biggest film of 2020, Know earning

The producer of the film, Gaurang Doshi, has prepared to land the film on about 20,000 screens. Expressing his happiness towards this project, Gaurang says, 'Aankhen film will always be very special for me for many reasons. This film has given me a big identity and Mr. Bachchan. The release of this film in China and Saudi Arabia after so many years can provide a huge amount of encouragement and reassurance to producers making films with global stories. Producer Gaurang explains that the film can be dubbed in local languages before releasing it in both countries. Apart from this, he says, "There are a lot of opportunities for filmmakers internationally, and I am happy that we are getting an opportunity to take advantage of these opportunities with our films."

This hot model breaks internet with her nude photos, see pictures here

Interestingly, after this film, Gaurang is also looking to launch his other films in the international market, including his Happy Anniversary, Aankhen Returns. For this, Gaurang has joined hands with VG Zhu, one of China's largest distributors, as well as collaborating with Saudi distributor Jen Saho to establish his coinage in Saudi Arabia and make a foray into Hindi films. For your information, let us know that the film Aankhen is one of the blockbuster films of Hindi cinema. Apart from Amitabh Bachchan, Akshay Kumar, Sushmita Sen, Arjun Rampal, and Paresh Rawal are in the lead roles in this multistarrer film. The sequel of this film has been going on for a long time, but there is no announcement for it yet.

Miss World Manushi Chillar will debut with Akshay Kumar's film, will play this character