Dist. 54 Open Enrollment Fair takes place Jan. 29

Students at one of District 54's four Dual-Language Spanish classes participate in a lesson. Parents can learn about the Dual-Language Spanish schools at the Open Enrollment Fair Jan. 29, along with the sign language program at Blackwell, Chinese Immersion Program at Campanelli, Dual-Language Japanese and Early Instrumental Music Program at Dooley and community school at Lincoln Prairie. Courtesy of District 54

A goal of the School District 54 Board of Education is to provide options for parents in the selection of their child's school. In addition to the neighborhood school, School District 54 has developed programs at several district schools, which it can now offer as choices.

District 54 invites parents to its annual Open Enrollment Fair Wednesday, Jan. 29. The fair will provide parents with information on eight elementary schools in the district: Blackwell, Campanelli, Dooley, Enders-Salk, Hanover Highlands, Lincoln Prairie, Link and MacArthur. Each school houses a unique program and School District 54 anticipates openings at each site next year.

The fair will take place from 6 to 7:30 p.m. at the District 54 Professional Learning Center, 522 E. Schaumburg Road in Schaumburg. Each school will have a table at this event, as well as employees available to talk to families about the schools and the programs they host. You will also be able to sign up at the fair to visit these schools and see the programs in action.

If you would like your child to attend one of these schools, applications are due March 6. You do not need to arrive early at the fair, as all student applications received by March 6 will be placed in a lottery. Schools will send letters to all applicants on March 20. Students must be registered before they will be accepted. Kindergarten registration begins Feb. 5.

A short description of each school is listed below.

Blackwell Elementary School: Blackwell, in Schaumburg, offers sign language as a mode of communication. Students learn signing from their teachers and communicate with both traditional oral and sign language. Blackwell also houses the District 54 program for students who are hearing-impaired. Supporting this communication theme, Blackwell has a full production lab so students can participate in video production projects and classes. Call Principal Jillian Sagan at (847) 357-5555.

Campanelli Elementary School: The goal of the Chinese Immersion Program is for students to communicate effectively in Mandarin Chinese as well as develop a deep understanding of the Chinese culture at this Schaumburg school. Call Principal Amy Christie at (847) 357-5333.

Dooley Elementary School: Dooley, in Schaumburg, offers a Dual-Language Japanese Program and Early Instrumental Music Program. Students learn Japanese and English together in this dual-language setting. In addition, early instrumental music (violin) is available to primary students at Dooley. Individuals can sign up for the Dual-Language Program only or the Dual-Language and Early Instrumental Music programs together. Call Principal Holly Schlicher at (847) 357-6250.

Enders-Salk Elementary School: Dual-Language Spanish kindergarten classes started in 2000 at Enders-Salk in Schaumburg. The goal of this program is for students to communicate effectively in both languages by the time they exit the school at the end of sixth grade. Call Principal Michael Henry at (847) 357-6400.

Hanover Highlands Elementary School: Dual-Language Spanish kindergarten classes started in 2004 at Hanover Highlands in Hanover Park. The goal of this program is for students to communicate effectively in both languages by the time they exit the school at the end of sixth grade. Call Interim Principals Maribeth Kanoon or Debbie Ancona at (630) 736-4230.

Lincoln Prairie School: Lincoln Prairie, in Hoffman Estates, is a community school founded on the premise that students learn in a variety of ways. Lincoln Prairie is the only District 54 building housing children from kindergarten through eighth grade. Students are grouped in multiage classrooms, working with teams of teachers on integrated curriculum. Project Development Time, in which students choose learning projects offered by staff, is a popular activity. Parent participation is an expectation at Lincoln Prairie. Call Principal Amanda Stochl at (847) 357-5955.

Link School: Dual-Language Spanish kindergarten classes started in 2009 at Link, based in Elk Grove Village. The goal of this program is for students to communicate effectively in both languages by the time they exit the school at the end of sixth grade. Call Principal Quinn Wulbecker at (847) 357-5300.

MacArthur International Spanish Academy: The original Dual-Language School in District 54, MacArthur, in Hoffman Estates, has been offering a full dual-language Spanish program for 25 years. Kindergarten students will learn Spanish and English from classroom teachers who are fluent in each language. Call Principal Sonia Esquivel at (847) 357-6650.

People interested in viewing the programs in action can visit the schools. If you cannot attend the fair, call the school you are interested in to schedule a visit or receive an application. For more information about open enrollment in general, contact Terri McHugh, community relations executive director, at (847) 357-5028 or TerriMcHugh@sd54.org.