Outgoing Chinese Ambassador to Zambia Zhou Yuxio has called on the Zambian Government not to rely on the mining sector alone but to invest in science and technology if the country is to develop.

Ambassador Yuxio said in modern society when you want to develop minerals are necessary but they are not the only capital you need as countries such as china among others have developed without minerals.

Speaking in Kabwe when he handed over 40 computers and related equipment to Mulungushi University laboratory worth over USD 40,000 through Huawei Technology Ambassador Yuxio said it is important for the Government to expand and invest in education.

Ambassador Yuxio said illiterate people cannot contribute to the development of the country hence the call for the Government to invest in the education sector.

Ambassador Yuxio said the economy can improve very fast if the country invests heavily in the education sector especially in the natural sciences.

‘When China closed itself in the first 30 years and education was not emphasised the country’s development was slow and in 1978 when the country reformed itself the Gross Domestic Product(GDP) per capital was only USD2000 but after it opened itself and emphasised education the GDP has increased to USD7000’, Ambassador Yuxio said.

Ambassador Yuxio said illiterate people cannot contribute to the development of the country hence the call for the Government to invest in the education sector.

Ambassador Yuxio also challenged Zambians to work for the development of the country through patriotism, devotion and contribution even as the country celebrates its golden jubilee.

Ambassador Yuxio said if people don’t have patriotism for their country after education they may leave for a better life without contributing to the country and that will be a problem as no one can develop Zambia more than the citizens themselves.

‘It is unfortunate that the Zambian people leave the mines to be mined by foreigners while they go to do mining in a further country, which is difficult for me to understand’, Ambassador Yuxio said.

He said China has been sending doctors to Zambia since 1978 and they have been working well serving the Zambian people while many Zambian doctors leave the country for greener pastures instead of contributing to their country.

Ambassador Yuxio said no other country can satisfy the needs of Zambia but the people themselves.

Ambassador Yuxio said it is sad that a number of mining engineers leave the country for greener pastures leaving foreigners to run the mines which has not show much progress as some foreign investors want to enrich themselves at the expense of the residents.

‘It is unfortunate that the Zambian people leave the mines to be mined by foreigners while they go to do mining in a further country, which is difficult for me to understand’, Ambassador Yuxio said.

Ambassador Yuxio urged the Government to come up with policies that foster development adding that correct policies are the most important keys to the development of any country.

He has since pledged to act as unpaid goodwill ambassador for Zambia wherever he would be as his term of office ends next month.

‘My Ambassadorship will end on July 10 this year, but my commitment to Zambia will not end as I will continue to speak positively about this country’, Ambassador Yuxio said.

He added that he enjoyed working in Africa for the past 15 years participating fully and contributing to the development of the continent at large.

‘I enjoyed working in Africa for the past 15 years many diplomats want to work in developed countries but I loved working in Africa where I was part of the many projects through my small donations’, Ambassador Yuxio said.

Meanwhile Minister of Education Doctor John Phiri thanked Ambassador Yuxio for the good counsel and commended the Chinese Government for the goodwill it has continued to offer to the country.

Dr Phiri said ambassador Yuxio is a blood brother because of the sacrifices the Chinese people have endured to develop Zambia from those dark days when Prime Minister Ian Smith of Rhodesia declared unilateral declaration of independence.

He said up to now the Chinese Government is executing projects all over Zambia which are changing the face of the country.

[Read 123 times, 1 reads today]