China



For the culture and heritage alone, China exceeds all other countries for sheer volume and number. This country is home to palaces, city walls, buried armies, and of course, the Great Wall of China. With some of the world’s greatest ancient empires and civilizations, China has some incredible examples of architecture and man-made wonders. One of the places you absolutely must visit if you go to China is the Terracotta Army. As a UNESCO world heritage site, and constructed over 2,000 years ago, the Terracotta Army is one of the greatest discoveries of the 20th century and forms part of the world’s largest imperial tomb complex -Qin Shi Huang’s mausoleum. In the same way that the pyramids of Egypt are on everyone’s radar, so should the Terracotta Army. The list of natural and man-made wonders in China really is endless, from the Yellow mountains, the regional cuisine, and the wildlife that you can observe, this is a spectacular place to spend some time in.



Consider going on a guided tour in order to get the most from this trip, there are many companies that specialize in English language tours. Another thing to remember, before booking a flight, is, of course, making sure that you have the correct Visa which you can check here at https://www.evisumservice.be/ and begin your visa application process.

Ecuador

Ecuador’s natural beauty is unparalleled. Home to Unesco world heritage sights, this South American country has Amazon jungle, coast, and Andean highlands to choose from. The capital city Quito has a rich culture and is brimming with colonial buildings, museums with pre-Colombian art, and a food culture that includes the infamous guinea pig!



A trip to this country isn’t complete without a visit to the famous Galapagos Islands, where Charles Darwin was astonished by the unique biodiversity of this place. These tiny volcanic islands are brimming with wildlife, including the giant tortoise which is the largest species of tortoise in the world, and the pink dolphins who swim in the nutrient-rich waters of the Galapagos. Ecuador is the perfect location for all those interested in diving and hiking, and you can do both easily.

Rome

If you feel like heading to Europe for an entirely different kind of adventure, there are many famous countries and cities to choose from. Rome is world-famous for having one of the most powerful and advanced civilizations the world has ever seen, and a history that is still visible in the streets in the form of ruins, and buildings that pay homage to this historical city. Rome is made up of warren-like streets that you can wander down and make your way to popular squares and historical sights that pop-up almost anywhere you walk. The famous Colosseum is truly spectacular, as is the Roman Pantheon, Forums, and natural parks dotted across the city. The Trevi fountain mixes popular legend with beautiful architecture and you can still throw a coin in and make a wish. The papal enclave of the Vatican City can be found in the center of Rome and is a City in its own right. You can find the Vatican museums and St Peters Basilica all within this area.

