Responses by Chris Colman, executive producer, Final Frontier, Shaofu Zhang, founder/director, Taiko Studios and Justin Leung, creative lead, Airbnb China

Background: Final Frontier and Taiko Studios produced Airbnb China’s Lunar New Year film, a touching animation demonstrating how the brand’s properties can become homes away from home at a time of year when young Chinese people are finding it difficult to return to their family hometowns. Titled “Fú”, the three-and-a-half minute 3-D animation tells the story of Jia Jia, a young nurse whose pursuit of her career dreams in the big city prevent her from returning to her hometown for Lunar New Year, much to the disappointment of herself and her parents. Fortunately, Airbnb’s platform is on-hand to enable a unique solution.

Reasoning: At the core of the film is the age old Chinese tradition of hanging a Fú, meaning blessing, banner upside down, symbolizing “good luck comes,” tying in to the overall campaign idea of turning traditional concepts on their head; in this case, “home” coming to Jia Jia rather than the other way around. We wanted to create something that we’ve never done before. By using animation, we brought Airbnb’s unique lightheartedness to address an emotional topic, and tell a story that Chinese millennials can relate to.

Challenges: While Airbnb was supportive of creating a non-photoreal art style that felt painterly and handmade, the biggest challenge was creating the dry brushed edge feel for a 3-D environment and retain the graphic and 2-D look. We partnered with MNPRX to develop a system that could achieve the style we were looking for. However, we were already in production as we were figuring out how to apply this look, so it was like laying down the track while we were driving the train. Thanks to our amazing team, we were able to find the right feel and achieve a unique look that felt like a moving illustration.

Favorite details: The beginning sequence where we see little Jia Jia growing up. Beyond the gorgeous art direction and charming animation, we worked hard to put in little details, like period appropriate props through the years as well as a city being built by a forest of cranes over time. We have received many comments from viewers that the sequence gave them nostalgia, and it reminded them of growing up during an incredible period of development and change in China.

Time constraints: The whole production took place over an intense four months, with pre-production mostly handled in Los Angeles, and modeling, animation and post executed in Wuhan. Final Frontier supported the production of various campaign assets with resources in Madrid and Buenos Aires.

Anything new: Working with animation is a rarity for major holiday campaigns in China, and this is first time Airbnb China has worked with the medium.

finalfrontier.tv