[January 15, 2020] Payment Card Industry Veteran Joins CompoSecure as COO

CompoSecure, L.L.C., a pioneer and global leader in the design and manufacturing of premium financial cards, today announced the appointment of Greg Maes to chief operating officer to further support the company's long-term growth strategy. Maes brings 25 years of experience with some of the largest global card manufacturers. "Our business has substantially increased in volume and complexity, and Greg brings the best management structure for the challenges ahead," said Jon Wilk, CEO of CompoSecure. "Greg has spent half of his career outside the U.S. and built a strong network of customers and partners, which strengthens our international expansion. He is also committed to our company culture of inclusive teamwork, ensuring all team members thrive and operational outcomes are met and surpassed." Maes will report directly to the CEO and will provide day-to-day leadership and management of all company manufacturing, operations, engineerin, quality and maintenance. Maes will partner with the CompoSecure Senior Leadership Team in setting and driving the organizational vision, operational strategy and hiring needs for the company.



Maes has held management and leadership positions in the card industry for more than 25 years. Most recently, he was the Global Chief Operating Officer for ABCorp, where he led the EMV and Dual interface readiness efforts and led group initiatives such as ERP or operational efficiencies across the organization. He also held operational positions for IDEMIA in Asia Pacific (Hong Kong) and Gemplus ( Gemalto (News - Alert) , now part of Thales) in Singapore and China. Maes was involved in smart card deployment (SIM cards, EMV, Dual Interface or Government ID cards) in factories, technology transfers between sites, and setup of new factories and personalization centers. Maes has a Chemistry and Physics degree from the Graduate School of Chemistry and Physics of Bordeaux, France. About CompoSecure

Founded in 2000, CompoSecure is a pioneer and global leader in the design and manufacturing of premium financial cards. The company focuses on serving the affluent customers of credit card issuers worldwide using proprietary production methods that meet the highest standards of quality and security. The company offers clients secure, innovative and durable proprietary products that implement leading-edge engineering capabilities and technology in both the public and private sector. The mission is to increase clients' brand equity in the marketplace by offering card products that differentiate the brands they represent, thus elevating the traditional card transaction process to a special cardholder experience. For more information, please visit www.composecure.com. View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200115005164/en/

[ Back To TMCnet.com's Homepage ]