A Chinese delegation from China International Import Expo (CIIE) has invited more Egyptian companies to join the upcoming CIIE session and seize the chance to increase their exports to the Chinese market.

During "Cairo Promotion Conference of 3rd CIIE" held in the Egyptian capital, Liu Fuxue, deputy director general of CIIE bureau, said that the Chinese huge import fair greatly contributes to enhancing and strengthening "economic globalization."

"In the next 15 years, China intends to import commodities worth more than 30 trillion U.S. dollars and services worth about 10 trillion U.S. dollars," said Liu, head of the CIIE delegation.

He noted that the Chinese importation plan would give a strong push for global economy and provide chances for foreign firms to expand businesses and partnerships in the Chinese market.

"China and Egypt have vast markets, which supports the opportunities for further economic cooperation and more investment and trade exchange between the two countries," said the head of the Chinese delegation.

The 2019 CIIE was joined by nearly 3,900 companies from at least 155 countries and regions.

Han Bing, minister counsellor for economic and commercial affairs of the Chinese embassy in Cairo, described the CIIE as "a pioneering move in the history of international trade development."

"Last year, Egypt was the largest exporter of oranges to China and Egyptian exports of agricultural fruits to China mounted to 140 million dollars," Han continued, noting that China is currently the largest trade partner of Egypt.

Egypt exports oranges, grapes, dates and sugarbeet pulp to China and is preparing for exporting pomegranates to the Chinese market, amid growing cooperation between the two countries. Growing ties between Egypt and China have been elevated in 2014 to the level of comprehensive strategic partnership with the support of the political leaderships of both countries.

More than 1,600 Chinese companies are currently operating in Egypt with total investments of more than 7 billion dollars, providing over 30,000 job opportunities in the most populous Arab country.

1,560+ Chinese companies provide 30,000+ job opportunities

Chinese Consul General in Alexandria Zhao Liying has said that the volume of Chinese investments in Egypt increased to about seven billion dollars, and that over 1,560 Chinese companies provide more than 30,000 job opportunities in Egypt.

She added that China has opened its doors to Egyptian exports, including fruits, oranges, grapes, dates and beets, as well as cooperation between both countries in the fields of education and technology.

Source: china.org.cn