Foster Denovo

Philip Davies is set to join the financial advisory firm as chief finance officer.

He will take over from Richard Horton who has been interim finance director for the past two years.

Previously, he was group financial controller for real estate company NHS Property Services and is currently the director of a consultancy firm.

UBS

Todd Tuckner, UBS’ group controller and chief accounting officer, has replaced Markus Habbel as the chief financial officer for global wealth management and for the bank’s Emea region.

The change is effective immediately, according to memos seen by newswire Reuters.

Tuckner will relocate to Zurich from the US, while he maintains his groupwide and regional roles.

Additionally, Angus Graham will be promoted to deputy group controller.

The move follows reports of UBS restructuring its global wealth management business.

Ardan International

The wealth management platform, part of RL360, has promoted Cassim Rasool to director of operations.

He was previously chief operating officer at Isle of Man-based Ardan.

He joined RL360’s parent company, International Financial Group, in 2016 from Lloyds Banking group, and became Ardan’s chief operations officer in 2018.

Artemis Investment Management

The Edinburgh-based investment management company has hired Matthew Beesley as chief investment officer, effective from 20 April 2020.

He replaces Peter Saacke who stepped down from the role to focus on managing a range of Artemis funds.

Beesley joins from Gam where he served as head of investments since 2017.

Bank of Singapore

Former HSBC Private Banking head of wealth planning for Asia-Pacific has taken on a role with the Bank of Singapore.

Joanna Ho becomes head of wealth planning for Greater China and north Asia, a newly created role at the bank.

She will be based in Singapore and be responsible for expanding the bank’s wealth planning, family office, trust, succession and insurance services to advisory clients in the regions.

Cult Wines

The global fine wine investment management firm has recruited Hubert Buchmuller as purchasing director.

He was previously a fine wine buyer at Compagnie Médocaine, part of the AXA Millésimes Group, between 2014 and 2020.