Share This





















By Austin James

The vice president of China General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria, CGCCN, Mr. Teng Li has described the celebration of the Chinese spring festival as an opportunity to deepen the cultural exchanges and friendship between China and Nigeria.

Mr. Li spoke during this year’s activities to mark the Chinese New year also known as the Chinese Spring festival. The event which was put together by the China General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria was held at the NAF conference centre in Abuja and attracted many Chinese nationals, companies and their Nigerian counterpart.

Li noted that the spring festival is the most solemn traditional festival in China, which is also called the Chinese New year. “Today all of us gather here not only to celebrate this important festival but also to establish a platform to deepen the cultural exchanges and friendship between China and Nigeria, this is also the mission and responsibility of China General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria.

He said that in recent years, with the continuous strengthening of relationship and friendship between China and Nigeria, more and more Chinese companies and people have come to Nigeria to participate in the infrastructural development of the country, noting that the CGCCN is doing its best in this direction by encouraging investment and coordination economic and trade exchanges.

He said that in the New Year the CGCCN would continue to grow Nigeria and make greater contribution in moving Nigeria forward. “We are committed to developing China-Nigeria economic and trade relations and the comprehensive and in-depth development of China Nigeria strategic partnership”. He said.

Also speaking in the same vain, the Special guest of the occasion and President of the Abuja Chamber of Commerce, Prince Kayode Adetokunbo SAN, thanked the CGCCN for putting the event together which he said was a way of bridging the cultural gap between both countries, he praised the efforts of the Chamber noting that the Abuja Chamber of Commerce would continue to work towards forging better relationship with Chinese companies in the coming year, which he said would be full of vitality since it was the year of he “Rat” in accordance with the Chinese calendar.

Highlights of the evening were the artistic and cultural display by Zhejiang Wu Opera Troupe which kept the audience glued to their seats.

James wrote in from Abuja.