As our state has continued its climb in population and business-friendly reputation, we’re encouraged by the bookend news this month that will bolster North Carolina’s economic backbone.

Agriculture has always been the No. 1 industry in the Old North State, even with rising impacts over the last half-century in research, banking and technology. Urban centers have grown immensely. In many of the next-tier metro areas, rural farmland has yielded to housing development.

Bladen County, however, remains deeply rooted, anchored by pork and blueberries. We’re a significant part of North Carolina’s nearly $90 billion a year agriculture economy.

The pact with China comes in four phases, each of the first two requiring $40 billion in U.S. trade. The deal with Mexico and Canada will be known outside of our state for the improved e-commerce regulations, and for weakening the ability of factory jobs to be lured across the borders.

“That’s basically NAFTA 2.0,” said Congressman David Rouzer. “President Trump campaigned on reforming and improving NAFTA, so that’s a campaign promise fulfilled.

“For all the talk of China, Canada and Mexico are our biggest trade partners.”

U.S. Sen. Thom Tillis, speaking of Trump’s signature on the law this week, said, “Today is a great day for farmers, small businesses, and workers in North Carolina and across the country.”

This legislation was unlike most in recent Beltway battles. Amid a contentious impeachment trial, the Senate vote was 89-10.

“It has been an encouraging few weeks for North Carolina farmers with the signing of the first phases of a trade agreement with China and now the passage of the U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement,” said Steve Troxler, North Carolina’s agriculture commissioner. “I believe these are good signs for the agricultural economy, and our farmers welcomed this positive news on trade with our three largest trading partners. We are thankful to the administration for prioritizing these important agreements.”

We believe these are good signs, too.

An economic impact report on the pork industry from N.C. State released late last year indicates Bladen County, in part because of the impact of the Smithfield Foods plant in Tar Heel, is the state leader at $2.54 billion. There are about 7,500 jobs tied to the industry in the county, or 44 percent of our total employment.

Nationally, we usually rank 11th or 12th in the nation in hog production, with Duplin first and Sampson second.

Suffice to say, what’s good for agriculture is good for Bladen County.

The farm industry has changed and evolved over the years. Lawmakers played a role in that.

So did smart farmers. Theirs is a love for the land they work. Their passion for providing is unmistakable.

It’s the dead of winter, and good news has come. We’re most encouraged, and very grateful.