Source: Xinhua| 2020-02-05 01:42:20|Editor: huaxia

Video Player Close

BEIJING, Feb. 4 (Xinhua) -- Yang Jiechi, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, on Tuesday night talked over phone with British Cabinet Secretary Mark Sedwill on the novel coronavirus epidemic control as well as cooperation between their two countries.

Yang, also director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the CPC Central Committee, briefed Sedwill on the latest developments of China's prevention and control measures on the novel coronavirus epidemic.

Yang noted that under the personal command and deployment of Chinese President Xi Jinping, the Chinese government regards the prevention and control of the epidemic as the most important task at present.

Yang said that China is not only responsible for the life, safety, and health of the Chinese people, but also making its greatest efforts to safeguard the health of the world's people and global public health safety.

"We have the confidence and ability to defeat the epidemic," Yang said, adding that China appreciates the support and assistance offered by the international community.

The World Health Organization (WHO) has reiterated that it does not agree to or even opposes travel and trade restriction measures, Yang said, adding that China hopes that the British side could understand and support China's efforts, respect the WHO's professional advice, and make sure that the regular cooperation and exchanges between China and Britain will go unaffected.

Sedwill, who is also the national security advisor to the British prime minister, said the British side fully recognizes the tremendous efforts and effective measures China has taken to combat the epidemic.

Britain has always treated and responded to the epidemic with a prudent and calm attitude, believing the mortality rate is low and there is no need to panic, he said.

The British side is ready to strengthen cooperation with China and provide assistance to China as much as possible, Sedwill said.

For his part, Yang said as China and Britain are both permanent members of the UN Security Council as well as major influential countries, their cooperation will not only benefit the two peoples, but also contribute to world peace, stability and prosperity.

At present, the China-Britain relations are facing new opportunities. The two sides should take a long-term view, blaze new trails, maintain high-level exchanges and deepen dialogue and mutual trust to push forward exchanges and cooperation in various fields, he said.

The two sides should handle their differences properly based on the principle of mutual respect while strengthening communication and coordination in international affairs, Yang said.

He also expressed the hope that Britain can create a fair, open and non-discriminatory market environment for Chinese enterprises to invest in the country.

Sedwill said the new British government attaches great importance to its relations with China and that Prime Minister Boris Johnson is willing to maintain good exchanges with Chinese leaders, promote bilateral and multilateral cooperation and jointly push for more new achievements in China-Britain ties.

Sedwill said Britain welcomes Chinese enterprises to continue to expand investment in Britain and is willing to provide favorable conditions for this.

Britain is also ready to enhance cooperation with China on such issues as climate change, bio-diversity and sustainable development, he said.