- Celebrity couple Kim Chiu and Xian Lim recently travelled together to Grindelwald

- For their trip, the couple booked a 'sleeper train' from Vienna, Austria to Switzerland

- At one point in the video, Kim got shocked inside the train after she pressed a couple of light switches

- The said video also garnered various reactions and comments from netizens on social media

PAY ATTENTION: Click "See First" under the "Following" tab to see KAMI news on your News Feed

Kapamilya star Kim Chiu has recently shared a new experience about her trip to Grindelwald, Switzerland with her boyfriend, Xian Lim on her social media account.

The celebrity couple who went to Vienna, Austria recently booked a 'sleeper train' or 'sleeper cabin' for a 10-hour ride to Grindelwald, Switzerland.

Following this news, KAMI learned that Kim shared her experience inside the capsule hotel-like train as she toured her viewers around the room in her vlog.

Watch the video below:

However, at one point in the video, Kim got the shock of her life after she showed how the light switches work as their room suddenly turned red and was accompanied by an automated recorded message.

Xian then jokingly said, "Ano ano daw pinaggagagawa mo?" to which Kim replied, "Malupit daw. Malupit ang samon. Baka samon ng pagkain?"

The said vlog also garnered reactions and comments from netizens on social media.

"Couple goals + travel goals talaga 'tong dalawa."

"Haha natatawa ako sa pagpindot ni Kimmy ng ilaw."

"Hahahah grabe kalog talaga itong si Kim super tawa ko sa pinaggagawa niya.."

"I like her na aside from being a good actress. Humorous din pala."

PAY ATTENTION: Enjoyed reading our story? Download KAMI's news app on Google Play now and stay up-to-date with major Filipino news!

As reported earlier by KAMI, Kim Chiu has stirred buzz in the online community after she posted their Chinese New Year celebration online. The actress shared some snaps from the traditional event together with her siblings and their father. Her family welcomed the Year of the Rat with fireworks display and a lion dance. Her post garnered countless comments and reactions from netizens on social media as well.

Kimberly Sue Yap Chiu, famously known as Kim Chiu, is a Chinese-Filipino actress, recording artist, and endorser. She gained her popularity after joining and winning the first season of Pinoy Big Brother Teen Edition.

POPULAR: Read more news about Kim Chiu

Please like and share our Facebook posts to support KAMI team! Don’t hesitate to comment and share your opinion about our stories either. We love reading about your thoughts!