When Dave Bennett travels to Los Angeles, he usually gets together at some point with friend and fellow Kingstonian Lisa Howard, who’s currently starring in the play Peggy’s Song at the Baby Grand.

“When I was there last time, she was mentioning that the show was happening (in Kingston), and we started reminiscing, talking about the good friendships, talking about the wonderful mentors and experiences we had, and we thought, ‘Wouldn’t it be fun to use this as an excuse to get together with the friends who are still in Kingston and with the folks who may be living nearby that they can come in for an evening?’” Bennett recalled.

He followed through on the idea, and now a collection of people who were active (and may still be) in the city’s theatre community during the late 1970s through to the early ’90s will gather at Megalo’s restaurant,which is next door to the Grand Theatre, on Saturday after the evening performance of Peggy’s Song. There will be refreshments, of course, and there’ll even be a keyboard on hand should anyone feel like performing an old musical number or two.

“It just organically grew with people who shared the same enthusiasm about those years, those foundational years,” Howard said of the reunion organized by Bennett.“For me, it was the late ’70s, mid-’80s, but everyone just wanted to get together and celebrate what that time meant to us all. It started off with me just being back here, asking a few good friends to come and they ran with it.”

Bennett himself returned from overseas — where he works as the casting director for Shanghai Disney — for the Chinese New Year, which just happened to coincide with Peggy’s Song’s run in Kingston. And a reunion was born.

While his first production was The King and I at the Grand Theatre, it was a summer theatre run in You’re a Good Man, Charlie Brown that he considered life-changing. The six actors in the production all went into the theatre and performance field. David Rogers (one of the confirmed guests for Saturday night) went on to star in Phantom of the Opera and other musicals, and now is an artistic director. Susan Coyne carried on to Stratford after Kingston and later created the TV series Slings and Arrows (about a Canadian Shakespearean company) and wrote the memoir/play Kingfisher Days. Andrea Neavitt,who’s also expected Saturday, became a TV producer (of shows such as the made-in-Canada Doodlebops). David Barber would go on and write for the Whig-Standard before heading to Toronto. And Charlie Brown himself, Michael Walters, became a casting director for Livent and shows such as Phantom and Show Boat, and for shows including, fittingly, the new Peanuts cartoon.

Bennett was still in high school at that point, while others in the production were just wrapping their final year of university.

“Being that age and being thrown into that mix and being treated like a peer was a great experience,” he said.

Director Anne Hardcastle, Bennett said, “brought together an interesting family and we still stay in touch.”

Hardcastle is one of the expected guests Saturday, as are directors such as Gord Love, Jill Hodkinson and Moira Davies.Also expected to attend are actors Barbara Dunn Prosser and Jacob James, who is the director of Peggy’s Song, and Barber. Joining them will be the local contingent: Chris Whyman, Nancy Tatham, Hollie Stewart-Juby, Len Whalen and Colin Wiginton, who’s the city’s cultural director.

Howard marvels at how many of her friends ended up sticking with the arts.

“All of my contemporaries, who I grew up with as a kid doing theatre, everyone has gone off and pursued careers and are still in the arts, which is fascinating to me,” said Howard, who has moved over to the development side of television shows in recent years. “We all wonder if that would have happened if it weren’t for our time in Kingston.”

After she left Kingston for George Brown College, Howard found success as a television actor. The time she spent in the city’s theatre community was influential and prepared her for what happened afterward, she said.

“The work was treated with dignity and respect, and we felt that we did something that mattered. We took ourselves seriously,” she reflected. “You just don’t find that quality of effort in most community theatre environments. When we left Kingston, we had this strong experience already that gave us all a leg up when it came to auditioning.”

Community theatre was a refuge for Howard, for whom “high school was not a welcoming place.” It was a collection of students from different schools, and she met some of her closest friends through it. And the quality of instruction and the venue (the Grand Theatre) were top notch.

“Yes, it was amateur, but the standards were high, the work ethic was high,” she said, “and that was such a gift.”

phendra@postmedia.com

twitter.com/petehendra