Source: Xinhua| 2020-01-21 01:21:21|Editor: huaxia

Video Player Close

File photo taken on Sept.11, 2019 shows Chinese Ambassador to Britain Liu Xiaoming speaking in an interview with Xinhua in London, Britain.(Xinhua/Han Yan)

"The international landscape is experiencing profound adjustment. Unilateralism and protectionism are on the rise. As major players of global influence, China and the UK shoulder important responsibilities," said Chinese Ambassador to Britain Liu Xiaoming.

LONDON, Jan. 20 (Xinhua) -- Regional cooperation and exchanges constitute an important pillar for China-Britain relations and a solid basis for their friendship, Chinese Ambassador to Britain Liu Xiaoming said Monday.

Delivering message on the launch reception and one-month countdown of the Fifth China-UK Regional Leaders' Summit, the ambassador said he hopes the summit will create new opportunities through matching the development strategies of the two countries.

The summit could serve as a bridge between Chinese and British governments and businesses and bring their complementary strengths together, so as to achieve more fruitful outcomes, he noted.

Slated for Feb. 17 to 19 in Birmingham, the summit will bring together hundreds of representatives from local governments, businesses and universities of the two countries to match development strategies, explore cooperation and seek common development.

Meanwhile, the ambassador said the summit offers an opportunity for deepening China-Britain friendship and mutual trust.

A staff member wearing a Paddington bear costume interacts with visitors during the "Britain Day" event at the Beijing International Horticultural Exhibition in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 17, 2019.(Xinhua/Ren Chao)

Official data from China shows that close to 200,000 Chinese students are studying in Britain. Mutual visits between the two sides reached two million last year, setting a new record. Every week, 168 flights operate between the two countries, with the number still increasing.

File photo taken on May 7, 2018 shows passengers posing for photos before boarding a direct flight from Xi'an to London at the Xi'an Xianyang International Airport in Xianyang City, northwest China's Shaanxi Province. (Xinhua/Shao Rui)



"This summit could serve as an opportunity for China and the UK to work together to give new vitality to the cultural and people-to-people exchanges between our two countries and contribute to building closer bond between our peoples," said the ambassador.

He further called on the two sides to take the summit as an opportunity to address global challenges.

"The international landscape is experiencing profound adjustment. Unilateralism and protectionism are on the rise. As major players of global influence, China and the UK shoulder important responsibilities," said Liu.

"This summit could encourage local governments and businesses of our two countries to stand up for free trade, support multilateralism and oppose protectionism in the spirit of openness and inclusiveness," he said, "together we can take the lead in the pursuit of win-win cooperation."

As the first regional cooperation mechanism between the two countries, the summit had been held in London, Shanghai, Belfast and Dalian since the first in 2016.■