They say do what you love, and love what you do. And this grandmother is a great example of the motto.

Dr Ao Zhongfang is still working at the age of 92 and enthusiastic about her job as a physician at a hospital in eastern China.

'To be able to serve patients and treat patients brings me the greatest joy,' the medic said proudly.

Dr Ao Zhongfang, 92, continues to work after retirement in the Chinese city of Nanjing

She says she wants to carry on 'contributing my skills and knowledge' to those who are in need

After officially retiring in 1994, the blood disease specialist whose husband was also a doctor decided to return to her former employee, Jiangsu Provincial People's Hospital in the city of Nanjing.

She says she wants to carry on 'contributing my skills and knowledge' to those in need.

Nowadays, she works four to five shifts a week, giving consultations and performing physical examinations to the public.

She says she sees more than 600 patients weekly.

Born in 1928, the experienced doctor says her passion for working is her secret to living a long life.

She says talking to patients keeps her thinking and lets her use her brain daily while walking to work from home gives her the opportunity to exercise.

'I often get asked by others why I can still think so clearly at my age, and this is why,' Dr Ao told Chinese video news outlet Pear.

Nowadays she works four to five shifts a week, giving consultations and physical examinations

Dr Ao calls herself a 'medical soldier' and even says she is willing to 'die on the battlefield'

Having devoted herself to the medical field for more than four decades, the selfless doctor calls herself a 'medical soldier' and even says she is willing to 'die on the battlefield'.

'I am willing to come here to work. I am willing to contribute my skills and knowledge,' she added in the interview. 'To me, working is my biggest source of happiness.'

Over the years, Dr Ao has not only become friends with hundreds of patients, but also supported her doctor husband's work and brought up a son and a granddaughter who are also doctors.

Ao's son works at the same hospital and is a chief physician at the Department of Respiratory Diseases; while her granddaughter studied in the United States and is now a doctor at Massachusetts General Hospital of Harvard Medical School.

Her son, Dr Zhang Xilong, says he witnessed his parents giving up their spare time to treat patients when he was little and that inspired him to be a doctor.

Dr Ao's son, Zhang Xilong, became a doctor under the influence of his parents. The physician says from an early age, he witnessed his parents giving up their spare time to treat patients

'I became a doctor under my parents’ influence. I felt that doctor was a respected occupation and it fulfilled the sacred mission of saving people,' he told the reporter.

In addition to her dedication to her work, Dr Ao spends her free time furthering her studies in her profession.

'I not only study new knowledge in my field, but also keep myself up-to-date with the development of the whole medical industry,' she said in a separate interview with Nanjing-based Jinling Evening News.

Talking about future, Dr Ao hopes to carry on working for as long as possible.

'I want to devote my entire life to a career that is to serve patients,' she told the reporter.

'I feel most happy when I am able to be of assistance to the people.'