



Tullio Crali, Tricolour Wings, 1932 (Ali tricolori). Oil on plywood, 72 x 56 cm.



LONDON .- For Tullio Crali (1910-2000) Futurism was not just a school of painting, but an attitude to life itself. Reflecting the movement’s enthusiasm for the modern world, his powerful imagery embraced technology and the machine as key sources of creative inspiration. Crali’s work focused on “the immense visual and sensory drama of flight”, and is most closely associated with the genre of ‘aeropainting’, which dominated Futurist research during the inter-war years. A new exhibition of works by this towering figure of Italian modernism explores his entire career, and features over 60 rarely seen pieces from the artist’s family collection, dating from the 1920s to the 1980s. A Futurist Life is the first show in the United Kingdom to be dedicated to Crali, and runs from 15 January until 11 April 2020 at London’s For Tullio Crali (1910-2000) Futurism was not just a school of painting, but an attitude to life itself. Reflecting the movement’s enthusiasm for the modern world, his powerful imagery embraced technology and the machine as key sources of creative inspiration. Crali’s work focused on “the immense visual and sensory drama of flight”, and is most closely associated with the genre of ‘aeropainting’, which dominated Futurist research during the inter-war years. A new exhibition of works by this towering figure of Italian modernism explores his entire career, and features over 60 rarely seen pieces from the artist’s family collection, dating from the 1920s to the 1980s. A Futurist Life is the first show in the United Kingdom to be dedicated to Crali, and runs from 15 January until 11 April 2020 at London’s Estorick Collection of Modern Italian Art . Crali grew up in the ... More





Ruth Asawa, Untitled (S.142, Hanging Five-Lobed, Multi-Layer Continuous Form within a Form), 1990 © The Estate of Ruth Asawa. Courtesy The Estate of Ruth Asawa and David Zwirner.



LONDON .- David Zwirner is presenting an exhibition of work by American artist Ruth Asawa at the gallery’s London location. This is the first major presentation of her work outside the United States and includes a number of key forms spanning more than five decades of the artist’s career, focusing in particular on the relationship between Asawa’s wire sculptures and her wide-ranging body of works on paper. An influential artist, devoted activist, and tireless advocate for arts education, Asawa is best known for her extensive body of hanging wire sculptures. These intricate, dynamic, and sinuous works, begun in the late 1940s, continue to challenge conventional notions of sculpture through their emphasis on lightness and transparency. Relentlessly experimental across a range of mediums, ... More