Below is a list of events and activities happening in and around the USI community in the coming weeks:

Monday, February 17 – Sunday, March 15



2020 Efroymson Bridge Year Fellowship Exhibition

The Efroymson Bridge Year Fellowship Exhibition, Mortal Flesh, will be on display starting on Monday, February 17 through Sunday, March 15 at the McCutchan Art Center/ Pace Galleries on the University of Southern Indiana campus. There will be a reception for the exhibitions will be on at 2 p.m. Sunday, March 1. Light refreshments will be served and the public is cordially invited to attend. Read More

9 a.m., 1:30 p.m. and 6 p.m. Tuesday, February 18



Ceramic artist Seth Green to visit campus for demonstrations and lecture

The University of Southern Indiana Art and Design department will welcome Seth Green, assistant professor of ceramics at Purdue University Fort Wayne, to campus on February 18. Green will host two demonstrations in the Dowhie Ceramic Center, the first at 9 a.m. and another at 1:30 p.m. That evening, Green will give an artist lecture in Kleymeyer Hall at 6 p.m. All events are free and open to the public. Read More

1:30 p.m. Tuesday, February 18



Engbers to present on Chinese politics and culture

Dr. Trent Engbers, associate professor of political science, will present his lecture, “Confusion, collective and reciprocal: Understanding Chinese politics through culture” as a part of the Global Salon Series at 1:30 p.m. Tuesday, February 18 in University Center 226/227. This free presentation is the first of the spring 2020 semester series and is open to the public. Read More

9 a.m., 1:30 p.m. and 6 p.m. Tuesday, February 18



Knowledge for Life Speaker Series: Fredi Lajvardi

Nationally recognized STEM educator and subject of the critically acclaimed documentary, Underwater Dreams, the major motion picture, Spare Parts, and the IMAX film Dream Big, Fredi Lajvardi will continue USI’s Knowledge for Life Speaker Series at 6 p.m. Tuesday, February 18 in USI’s Performance Center. Read More

1 – 4 p.m. Wednesday, February 19



CareerLINK Internship and Job Fair

More than 90 employers and graduate schools will be on campus for the annual spring CareerLINK Internship and Job Fair, starting at 1 p.m. Wednesday , February 19 in Screaming Eagles Arena. Students of all classes and majors are encouraged to attend to discover opportunities and connect with potential employees. More Information

8 a.m. – 8 p.m. Saturday, February 22



Students and community invited to join second Hackathon sponsored by ACM

The University of Southern Indiana chapter of the Association for Computer Machinery (ACM) will host its second Hackathon from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Saturday, February 22, at Carter Hall on the USI campus. This event, open to both USI students and the general public, will provide a collaborative programming environment to work on real local business projects to gain experience and network with each other. Lunch and dinner will be provided. Read More

Open through Friday, March 20



New Harmony Gallery featuring ceramic works of resident artists

The New Harmony Gallery of Contemporary Art’s latest exhibition, Residence IV, is an annual exhibition that showcases the resident artists from the New Harmony Clay Project (NHCP) located at the Sarah Campbell Blaffer Ceramic Studio, in the lawn adjacent to Philip Johnson’s Roofless Church. This year the exhibition is returning to the New Harmony Gallery of Contemporary Art through March 20, and features artists Tristyn Bustamante, Lene Graversgaard, Krestine Harboe, Morgana King, Yoko Sekino-Bove, Kritika Soni, and Kari Woolsey. Read More