73-year-old Liu Yujia, from China, has fully recovered from virus

Consul General Li Xuhang of China and Dr. Al Rand, visited Yujia, congratulating her on her full recovery. Image: WAM

One of the first people diagnosed with the deadly coronavirus in the UAE has been discharged from hospital and given a clean bill of health.

Liu Yujia, a 73-year-old from China, was admitted to hospital after being infected by the new coronavirus, which has claimed more than 900 lives in her home country and spread all over the world.

However, a report on the Emirates state news agency (WAM) confirmed that the grandmother was now free from the virus.

Ministry of Health and Prevention’s assistant under-secretary for health centres and clinics, Dr. Hussein Al Rand, said: "The results of the 2019-nCoV detection test conducted on the patient turned out negative of the new coronavirus. She is now in a good health and fully recovered."

Consul General Li Xuhang of China and Dr. Al Rand, visited Yujia, congratulating her on her full recovery.

Yujia expressed her appreciation for the care provided by the UAE's authorities to her family members as well who also tested positive for the new coronavirus.

"I would like to thank the Consul General of China and the representative of UAE’s Ministry of Health for their visit," she added.

Dr. Al Rand stressed that the UAE is taking all necessary measures to deal with the newly announced coronavirus cases.

He added: "Individuals diagnosed are receiving proper health care in accordance with leading World Health Organisation (WHO) standards, with each individual case being monitored until full recovery is attained.

"This case of the Chinese lady increases hope that other discovered cases in the UAE can also be fully recovered.”

At least 40,000 people in China have now been infected by the virus, believed to have emerged late last year in Hubei province's capital Wuhan.

For all the latest health tips & news from the UAE and Gulf countries, follow us on Twitter and Linkedin , like us on Facebook and subscribe to our YouTube page, which is updated daily.