Osaka is a city long dubbed “Japan’s kitchen”, due to its famously tasty cuisine, which ranges from fried octopus balls to barbecued yakiniku beef and raw blowfish. Now, this bustling city in western Japan can add something a little more luxurious to its list of culinary highlights. This weekend it will become home to the world’s first Louis Vuitton café and restaurant. Le Café V and Sugalabo V are housed at the apex of a sleek new Louis Vuitton flagship on Osaka’s Midosuji shopping boulevard - opening February 1 - complete with a billowing white sail-inspired façade, dreamt up by Japanese architect Jun Aoki, and airy art-packed interiors by designer Peter Marino. Both restaurant and café were created in collaboration with Yosuke Suga, the innovative chef (and Joël Robuchon protégé) whose intimate Tokyo restaurant Sugalabo has a cult following due to his innovative Japanese twist on modern French cuisine. These openings come at a time when modern concepts of luxury edge ever further from the traditional confines of a statement-shouting designer handbag – and instead push towards a more experiential take on luxury, from hotels (Bulgari and Armani, among others) to fine dining. LVMH’s recent culinary ventures include Tiffany’s first European Blue Box Cafe, which opens in Harrods this February, and Dior’s Paris flagship, which is currently under refurbishment and will reopen in 2021 with a new restaurant.

The exterior of the new Louis Vuitton flagship, which also houses the café and restaurant Credit : Stephane Muratet

As one of the world’s largest luxury markets - along with the US and China - Japan has long been a barometer of global commercial trends, which goes some way to explaining why Louis Vuitton is opening its first café and restaurant here. Meanwhile, Osaka isn’t just heaven for food lovers; it’s also a major retail hub both for domestic shoppers as well as steady influx of luxury-hungry shoppers from China and Asia via its international airport.

Inside Le Café V in Osaka, Japan Credit : Stephane Muratet

During a sneak preview ahead of the Osaka flagship’s opening, I passed several floors of curated fashion, accessories and art collections, before entering the café from a modern mirrored lift. Flooded with natural light, it has a sea-inspired terrazzo floor, a large green weeping fig tree, a curved inner space with tables, egg-shaped hanging chairs and a clean-lined modern counter with sky blue seats beneath reflective decorations suspended from the ceiling. It overlooks a roof terrace, where a maritime theme continues (Osaka is a major port hub), with fabric chairs, table-tops and rugs in vibrant sea blues and greens evoking a European touch of boho-luxe.

The roof terrace takes a maritime theme, inspired by the city's great port

Staff in shirts and navy aprons rustle up treats from 11am to midnight. The menu takes in teas, ranging from a special Sugalabo herb tea blend with hints of mint, lemongrass and rosemary (1,800 yen, around £12.50) to roasted Uji green tea from Kyoto (1,500 yen, around £10.50) and dishes, such as a Wagyu beef hamburger steaks (3,800 yen, around £26.50) and the V Club House Sandwich (2,400 yen, around £17). After dark, cocktails are also available; I was recommended an Earl Grey-infused gin and tonic. Japan is a nation that’s famously quick to embrace new trends and openings, with devoted consumers often not batting an eyelid at the prospect of queuing up for three hours for a mere bag of popcorn to celebrate a new store.

The cafe's curved inner space

However, Louis Vuitton plans to do things a little differently in Osaka: it’s not possible to reserve a seat in the café, so visitors will be asked to register their name and phone numbers in person – and then leave, before being called back when a table becomes free. “There won’t be long queues here,” confides one member of staff. Meanwhile, the restaurant is another level of luxury, where access is so exclusive that even its entrance is disguised. Press a Bond-style button on an empty wall and an installation of Louis Vuitton suitcases will slide aside so visitors can slip through discreetly – and it’s here, staring at the wall, that my tour comes to an end.

The exclusive restaurant is centered around an open kitchen concept