News : Bahamas Information Services Updates Last Updated:

Chinese Ambassador H.E. Huang Qinguo makes courtesy call on Minister of Health the Hon. Dr. Duane Sands

By The Ministry Of Health

Feb 8, 2020 - 11:20:17 PM



Email this article

Mobile friendly page



Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to The Bahamas His Excellency Huang Qinguo paid a courtesy call on the Minister of Health, the Hon. Dr. Duane Sands, February 7, 2020 at the Ministry.

On Friday, 7th February 2020, the Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to the Commonwealth of The Bahamas His Excellency Huang Qinguo made a courtesy call on the Minister of Health, the Hon. Dr. Duane Sands to discuss matters related to the 2019 Corona Virus in China.



During the meeting at the Ministry’s offices, the Ambassador apprised the Minister of measures taken to prevent and control the spread of the virus in and outside of China.



The Ambassador noted that since the outbreak, the measures taken by the Chinese Government exceeded the recommended measures by the World Health Organization (WHO) in an open and transparent manner. He stated that:



The epidemic first started in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, which is located in central China.





Minister of Health Meets In Courtesy Call with Chinese Ambassador

Information received January 23, 2020 regarding the increase in the number of cases in Wuhan City resulted in a lock down of the movement of persons in and out of Wuhan City. Other neighboring provinces also instituted similar measures.



Persons, who were permitted to travel, were screened and those with fever were prevented from travelling. All confirmed cases are being treated and all suspected cases are being quarantined.



Stricter measures were taken at the Customs Borders to prevent persons (nationals and non-nationals) from leaving the borders.



The Foreign Minister of China sent a Task Force to Wuhan City to monitor the situation including the wellbeing of Bahamian students residing in Wuhan City. Food and other supplies are being provided.





Minister of Health, right, Meets with Chinese Ambassador, centre left

Of the 160 Bahamians residing in China, presently five are in Wuhan City and they are being monitored by the Chinese and the Bahamian Embassy. They are all encouraged to remain at home to prevent the risk of infection.



The outbreak in China is improving despite the increase in new cases, as the numbers of suspected cases are decreasing. Further the recovery of persons from the illness is also improving and the government of China is confident that with the warming of the weather, the number of cases will be further decreased.



Ambassador Huang Qinguo noted that the Border Control and Quarantine measures taken by The Bahamas are stricter than other countries, and hoped that with health improvements in China the period of time for quarantine will move from 20 to 14 days.



Minister Sands thanked the Ambassador for the collaborative meeting and noted that these measures were taken due, in part, to the condition in the country following Hurricane Dorian, and that the health prevention messaging speaks to the 2019 Corona Virus and not the Chinese People. The Minister also informed that the concerns raised, especially with regard to the period of time for the quarantine, will be discussed with his colleagues.



The Minister of Health commended the Government of the People’s Republic of China for the efforts taken to prevent and control the epidemic, and committed to continue the collaborative partnership and support to prevent the spread of the 2019 Corona Virus.

On Friday, 7th February 2020, the Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to the Commonwealth of The Bahamas His Excellency Huang Qinguo made a courtesy call on the Minister of Health, the Hon. Dr. Duane Sands to discuss matters related to the 2019 Corona Virus in China.During the meeting at the Ministry’s offices, the Ambassador apprised the Minister of measures taken to prevent and control the spread of the virus in and outside of China.The Ambassador noted that since the outbreak, the measures taken by the Chinese Government exceeded the recommended measures by the World Health Organization (WHO) in an open and transparent manner. He stated that:The epidemic first started in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, which is located in central China.Information received January 23, 2020 regarding the increase in the number of cases in Wuhan City resulted in a lock down of the movement of persons in and out of Wuhan City. Other neighboring provinces also instituted similar measures.Persons, who were permitted to travel, were screened and those with fever were prevented from travelling. All confirmed cases are being treated and all suspected cases are being quarantined.Stricter measures were taken at the Customs Borders to prevent persons (nationals and non-nationals) from leaving the borders.The Foreign Minister of China sent a Task Force to Wuhan City to monitor the situation including the wellbeing of Bahamian students residing in Wuhan City. Food and other supplies are being provided.Of the 160 Bahamians residing in China, presently five are in Wuhan City and they are being monitored by the Chinese and the Bahamian Embassy. They are all encouraged to remain at home to prevent the risk of infection.The outbreak in China is improving despite the increase in new cases, as the numbers of suspected cases are decreasing. Further the recovery of persons from the illness is also improving and the government of China is confident that with the warming of the weather, the number of cases will be further decreased.Ambassador Huang Qinguo noted that the Border Control and Quarantine measures taken by The Bahamas are stricter than other countries, and hoped that with health improvements in China the period of time for quarantine will move from 20 to 14 days.Minister Sands thanked the Ambassador for the collaborative meeting and noted that these measures were taken due, in part, to the condition in the country following Hurricane Dorian, and that the health prevention messaging speaks to the 2019 Corona Virus and not the Chinese People. The Minister also informed that the concerns raised, especially with regard to the period of time for the quarantine, will be discussed with his colleagues.The Minister of Health commended the Government of the People’s Republic of China for the efforts taken to prevent and control the epidemic, and committed to continue the collaborative partnership and support to prevent the spread of the 2019 Corona Virus.











© Copyright 2020 by thebahamasweekly.com



Top of Page



