The best field watch overall

Bertucci

The Bertucci A-2T Original Classics Field Watch features a tough but light titanium case, classic field watch styling, and water-resistance to 200 feet.

US-based Bertucci is a relative newcomer to the watch market, having launched in 2004, but has quickly become the market leader in titanium field watches. The A-T2 was the company's first watch and has continued to be a top seller even as it's gone through various updates over the years.

It's a nice combination of classic field watch looks and thoughtful design. The 40-millimeter titanium case is tough but light, weighing in at 1.9-ounces, with a sand-blasted matte finish. The crystal is made from hardened mineral glass and is somewhat recessed and protected by the bezel helping it remain scratch-free.

The watch has a screw-down crown and case back. One nice feature is the offset crown that allows for a bit more wrist movement than standard designs. The watch is water-resistant up to 200 meters, so it's good for swimming and snorkeling, but Bertucci offers a three-year warranty on the watch head and a one year warranty on the band if something does go wrong.

The A-2T is easy to read thanks to the large high contrast numerals. At night, the Swiss super luminous hands and markers allow you to pretty easily see the time. It isn't the brightest out there, but it's definitely bright enough to read your watch in a dark movie theater when the film's plot is dragging. The face features 12-hour markings as well as 24-hour military time and also features the date. The battery should last about three years before having to be replaced.

The watch is assembled in the US, though the case is made in China but machined in the US, and the all-metal quartz movement is Japanese. The surprisingly comfortable band is made from a super durable two-ply nylon that's boxed stitched for durability.

Pros: Tough and light, easy to read day or night

Cons: The lume is weaker than some other field watches