A MAJOR event in Denbighshire later this year will honour a noted local figure.

Following the announcement of a 100 days to go until the 2020 Denbighshire Urdd Eisteddfod last week, it has been revealed that the late Margaret Edwards, of Betws Gwerfyl Goch, will be posthumously honoured as an honorary president of this year’s festival.

In a special episode of BBC Radio Cymru’s Dei Tomos programme, broadcast at 5.30pm today (Sunday, February 23), Director of the Urdd Eisteddfod Sian Eirian pays tribute to Margaret Edwards, who died unexpectedly last year, and talks about her contribution to the Urdd over the years.

Also in the studio will be Margaret's daughter Elin Angharad alongside Beryl Lloyd Roberts, while there will be contributions from Rhys Meirion, Sian Edwards, John Eric Hughes and Trebor Edwards.

There will also be an opportunity to hear music from Margaret Edwards’ life, including some of her choirs over the years, Margaret’s own voice singing a solo and a duet with Trebor Edwards, and a party consisting of all her grandchildren.

In addition to the full programme on Sunday, there will be a shorter broadcast on Tuesday night at 5pm.

“Margaret Edwards made an outstanding contribution to the Urdd,” said Eisteddfod director Sian Eirian, “giving hours of her time to train, organise and inspire children and young people to compete in Urdd eisteddfodau over the years.

“Margaret Edwards was responsible for establishing the highly successful Aelwyd Bro Gwerfyl in 1987, and in 2001 was presented with the John and Ceridwen Hughes Award for all her voluntary work for the organisation.

“As well as the members of Aelwyd Bro Gwerfyl, generations of children benefited from her talent as a teacher, during her time as headteacher of Ysgol Dinmael and subsequent music teacher at various schools.”

According to her family and friends, she was delighted that the children of Ysgol Carreg Emlyn had the experience of singing on the Wales Millennium Centre stage during the Cardiff and Vale Urdd Eisteddfod last year, believing that they would remember the occasion throughout their lives.

She was also looking forward to the Denbigh Eisteddfod.

This year’s chairman of the Eisteddfod executive committee Dyfan Phillips said: “Margaret is known all over Wales for her contribution to the life of our young people.

"She was a gentle and warm person and she leaves behind a huge vacuum.

"She was such a positive influence on our local community, and for this we thank her.

"Our thoughts are with her family and it is a great privilege for us as the executive committee to make her an honorary president.

"The Eisteddfod has lost one of its greats, but we thank her for her tremendous contribution to Welsh culture.”

Sian Eirian added: "Although the circumstances are sad, we are proud to be able to recognise Margaret Edwards’ huge and important achievements and contribution at the Urdd Eisteddfod Denbighshire 2020.”

Details of other honorary presidents will be released soon.