Reflecting Qatar’s strong humanitarian spirit, Qatar Airways (QA) has sent five cargo freighters to China, containing 300 tonnes of medical supplies to support the East Asian country in its fight against the novel coronavirus.

The planes that departed yesterday for the Chinese cities of Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou carried relief aid donated by the airline.

The endeavor comes under QA’s voluntary offer of free air cargo transportation for medical aid organized by the Chinese embassies and consulates around the world, the airline said in a press release.

Five #QatarAirways Cargo freighters departed to China today carrying approximately 300 tonnes of medical supplies donated by the airline to support #Cornavirus relief efforts.#ChinaQatarTogether pic.twitter.com/P2JmFEo3QF — Qatar Airways (@qatarairways) February 21, 2020

Among the relief aid were 100,000 medical-grade N95 respiratory masks and 2,700 medical-grade disposable latex gloves that would serve as necessary protection for healthcare professionals working above and beyond in the Hubei Province to curb and manage the virus.

With this gesture, QA has become the first international airline to offer emergency relief flight delivery to China where currently more than 75,000 people are estimated to have contracted the infection.

We are proud to be the first airline in the world to volunteer emergency flights to support medical relief efforts.#QatarAirways#ChinaQatarTogether#coronaviruswuhan pic.twitter.com/jvP1NLt4DR — Qatar Airways (@qatarairways) February 21, 2020

“When this crisis began, we knew we had to contribute to support our friends in China. As one of the leading air cargo carriers in the world, we are in a unique position where we are able to provide immediate humanitarian support through the provision of aircraft and donating medical supplies as well as coordinating logistical arrangements,” said QA Group chief executive His Excellency Akbar Al Baker.

He added that QA is working in collaboration with the Chinese embassy in Qatar to help limit the spread of the disease, reduce the burden on Chinese healthcare professionals and alleviate the suffering of Chinese communities facing the impact of the situation.

Chinese ambassador to Qatar Zhou Jian, who was present on the occasion when the QA planes departed said, “At this critical moment, when Chinese people nationwide are fighting against the coronavirus, Qatar Airways has opened a 'Green Channel' for donating and transporting medical supplies to China.”

“This is a channel of love, friendship, solidarity, and hope. We are deeply grateful for that,” he noted.

He further added that this kindness shown by Qatar mirrors the strong fraternal friendship between Qatar and China.

“It is also a symbol of Qatar’s internationalism, and a symbol of solidarity among the international community to stand together in the face of difficulties,” he said.

More donations will be sent to China in the near future, the airline confirmed.

This donation comes after an earlier batch of critical medical relief aid delivered by QA to Shanghai on February 2.

Later, on February 7, QA jointly with the Chinese embassy in Qatar had announced the ‘Green Channel’ initiative for complimentary air transportation.

--

Make sure to check out our social media to keep track of the latest content.

Instagram - @qatarliving

Twitter - @qatarliving

Facebook - Qatar Living

Source and Images Credit: Qatar Airways