Tuesday, February 11th, 2020 | Written by Renee

The last ever MPN Poker Tour finally came to a conclusion and history was created when Estonia’s Martin Piik became the final MPNPT champion, after taking down the €550 Main Event at the Gran Casino in Madrid, Spain.

Piik outclassed Chinese pro Richard Liu heads-up to walk away with €52,000 in first-place prize. The 23-year-old, who was only able to play less than a dozen live tournaments throughout his career, was over the moon about his victory, saying what really mattered to him was the trophy and the eternal glory of being the final MPNPT Main Event winner.

Piik may not have played as many poker tournaments as his opponents, but he is very much exposed to live action and is currently employed at Olympic Casino in Tallinn. In fact, he is part of the team working behind the scenes for the upcoming Kings of Tallinn tournament which is set to take place in less than a week. What made the win even more special for Piik was the presence of his father, who accompanied him to the tournament.

The Estonian player was among hundreds of participants who won their way into the event by qualifying through MPN’s partner sites, including Olybet, 32Red, Grosvenor, Betsafe, NordicBet, Betsson, Guts, Paf, and Triobet. Piik earned his seat through Olybet.

Well-Attended Final Main Event

The final MPNPT Main Event was attended by a number of former champs, but none of them managed to pull off a second victory. Keimo Suominen, the 2017 MPNPT Tallinn winner, failed to make the cut after busting in eleventh place. Several popular names in poker also took part, including English poker pro Deborah Worley-Roberts who was not able to reach the Main Event final table, but took down the tour’s Ladies Event.

Also in attendance were UCOP champ Mateusz Moolhuizen, as well as award-winning podcaster and Unibet Poker ambassador David Lappin, both of whom walked away with some cash.

The Main Event final table became an international affair, with six nationalities competing for the top prize. The UK’s Stuart McCormack and Jay Yerby finished ninth and eighth, collecting €4,575 and €5,600 respectively. Poland’s Sebastian Lohunko finished seventh for €8,100, while Greek player Stylianos Kollatos settled for sixth, earning €10,500. Sweden’s Mikael Gronvik, who kicked off the final table as the big stack alongside Liu and Piik, ended his bid in fifth place for €14,000.

British player James Sudworth finished fourth for €20,000, followed by Estonia’s Raido Ounapuu in third place for €28,000. Piik and Liu entered heads-up play with the Chinese in the lead. However, Piik managed to turn things around after winning a huge pot, and since then he never looked back.

Piik made his victory official after calling off Liu’s king-queen with ace-four, and was eventually crowned as the final MPNPT champion.

Overall, the huge field generated €278,875 in total prize pool, shared among the top 71 finishers.

MPN Poker Tour Signs Off

The MPN Poker Tour has been around for six years and is among the popular and well-regarded festivals in the world, catering to players of all levels, from poker pros to recreational players.

The last edition of the tour was a huge success, with other side events also attracting huge fields, including the Superknockout event, Doubles tournament, and Ladies Event.

In a message at the end of the tournament, MPN Poker Managing Director Alex Scott expressed his gratitude to everyone involved in the success of the tour, including the staff, venues, media partners, sponsors, and most especially the players.

People working behind the scenes during each season also recalled how the tour was able to unite people from all walks of life, all rooting for each other to win. For a lot of players, the tour did not feel like competition, everyone was just having fun, creating happy memories.

The MPN Poker Tour has officially signed off, but a recap of the final action is available at the MPN website.