THERE is only ONE way to celebrate Chinese New Year . . . with a takeaway.

The Year of the Rat is not the only reason to order in a Chinese as it is already the nation’s most popular takeaway grub.

8 Stick with the Chinese New Year theme but fake it to make a saving Credit: Getty Images - Getty

But it can get expensive. A weekly takeaway can set you back more than £1,000 a year.

But it does not have to cost a fortune, thanks to these thrifty “fakeaways” . . .

Chinese, please: Stick with the Chinese New Year theme, but fake it to make a saving. On average, we spend £9.86 per person on a Chinese takeaway, so instead create your own. A chicken chow mein sweet and sour chicken meal box serves two from Tesco for just £5, usually £8.

Add to your feast with a selection of half-price appetisers — such as crispy chilli prawns, £1.75, usually £3.50.

SAVING: Around £12.97 for two

Doner spend a lot: Drank too much last night? Save pounds on post-pub kebabs — usually around £6 from kebab shops — by stocking up on Babek doner kebab meat, £2 for 600g, from Iceland.

SAVE: at least £4

Pail imitation: Create your own KFC bargain bucket. Get a bag of frozen Southern fried chicken thighs, £3 from Iceland. For the sides, grab Southern fried chips, £1.50, and a bag of mini corn cobs, £1. Gravy fans should head to B&M for Mayflower Southern style gravy mix, £1, which makes 1.6 litres of gravy. All of this works out at around £6.50 — far cheaper than a six-piece bargain bucket, approximately £10.49.

SAVING: £4.20

Cheeky swap: Most of us love a Nando’s. But you can create your very own chicken feast at home without having to fork out for a takeaway. Head to Sainsbury’s and buy a Nando’s Bag Bake, £1, down from £1.20.

If you also buy 1kg of chicken breast fillets for £5.50, you can make more than enough for everyone.

A Nando’s chicken butterfly costs £8.25 — so you make a big saving when cooking for a family.

SAVE: At least £1.75

PRICES correct at time of going to press. Deals and offers subject to availability.

Deal of the day

8 Save £5 with the Salter Chinese New Year set for £15 at Sainsbury's

PICK up a Salter Chinese New Year set for £15, down from £20 at Sainsbury’s. Including a steel wok, Blue Dragon soy sauce, chow mein stir-fry sauce and sweet chilli and garlic stir-fry sauce.

SAVE: £5

Cheap Treat

8 Selected Sharwoods sauces are two for £2 at Tesco

IF you fancy making your own Chinese curry, head to Tesco. It has two for £2 on selected Sharwoods sauces such as Chinese curry and sweet and sour sauce, usually £1.85 a jar.

SAVE: £1.70

My Sun Savers Fiver LESLIE GEE, from Steyning, West Sussex, says: “I will put my Sun Savers fivers towards both my daughters’ birthdays, which are coming very soon.”

Send your Savers fiver stories to sunsavers.co.uk/fivers and you will get 28 codes worth £5 if yours is used. Please include your name and town.

Top Swap

8 Amoy dark soy sauce will pinch your pennies at Waitrose

DON’T pay £1.40 for Amoy dark soy sauce from Waitrose. Instead, try a bottle from Aldi for 45p. I can barely taste the difference.

SAVE: 95p

8 Aldi's own brand is just as good and a fraction of the price!

Reader's Saving Tip

GLYNIS CASEY, from Carnforth, Lancs, says: “When shopping at B&Q, ask at the customer service desk if there are any discounted items. They often sell items, which people have not collected, cheap.”

Send your tips to sunsavers.co.uk/tips and you will get 28 codes worth £5 if yours is used. Please include your name and town.

Shop & Save

8 Save with this tasty alternative to expensive takeaway's at Iceland

PICK up any four Chinese ready meals at Iceland for £5, including chicken chow mein and crispy duck with pancakes.

2 FOR 1 DAYS OUT WITH SUN SUPERDAYS LOOKING for some fun activities to kick start the year? Look no further than this fantastic 2 for 1 offer to top UK attractions with Sun Superdays. Enjoy some serious star-spotting at Madame Tussauds London or Blackpool. Party with Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson in London and don’t miss the new Strictly Experience in Blackpool. Escape the ordinary and experience the awesome at The Bear Grylls Adventure in Birmingham. Or enjoy new deep-sea adventures with the return of Professor Finn in Jawsome Sharks (and Friends!), plus dive into a new mission with the Octonauts at SEA LIFE Aquariums across the country. So what are you waiting for? Simply cut out the voucher below and take it to the attraction on the day of your visit. Some attractions require pre-booking online, see the voucher for instructions. “Bear Grylls” is a registered trademark of Bear Grylls Ventures LLP. These images depict figures created and owned by Madame Tussauds. Voucher valid until April 30, 2020.

Your paper could be worth £50,000

8 Could you be the next Sun raffle winner?

Every month YOU could win the super cash giveaway in our Sun Raffle just for reading this paper.

Entering could not be easier – simply download the Sun Savers app or sign up at sunsavers.co.uk.

Then, opt in to each month’s Sun Raffle by clicking “Yes!” when prompted and start collecting the codes printed daily inside the paper – scanning in the app or entering online.

With every code you enter you will earn a Raffle ticket into that month’s £50,000 Raffle.

There is no limit to how many tickets you can collect per month, so make sure to enter as many codes as you can to give yourself the best chance of winning. Remember, you have got to be in it to win it.

Not already a Sun Savers member? Join Sun Savers today.

It only takes a minute to sign up – just search “Sun Savers” in the app store and then download the app, or head to sunsavers.co.uk. To get started, all you need to do is enter a few details.

- T&Cs apply. For full T&Cs see sunsavers.co.uk.

Fancy a free fiver?

YOU can get FREE cash with super Sun Savers just for buying your favourite paper.

Our brilliant new rewards club will pay back our most loyal readers.

8 You can get a free fiver just for buying The Sun Credit: Getty - Contributor

Just pick up the paper each day to collect your Sun Savers codes and we will GIVE YOU £5 when you have ­collected 28.

This isn’t a one-off and there is no limit to how much cash you can save.

For every 28 codes you enter, we will give you a fiver.

So over the course of a year, that could add up to £65.

We are keeping it super-simple.

You don’t have to enter codes from consecutive days, so don’t worry if you forget a day or two.

MOST READ IN MONEY SUN SAVERS Britain's Coupon Kid gives his top four tips on how to save money every day DON’T PANIC How much food you need to stockpile for two-week self-isolation STORE WARS Tesco & Waitrose start RATIONING pasta and hand sanitiser due to coronavirus Exclusive CORONA CHAOS Martin Lewis: Coronavirus will cause large number of travellers to lose money ANTI BAC Where to buy hand sanitiser as coronavirus spreads Exclusive TRAVEL HELL I lost £500 after cancelling my holiday to Venice due to coronavirus

Download our easy Sun Savers app and quickly scan your code using your smartphone. Or go online and enter your code at sunsavers.co.uk.

To get you on your way, join today and we will put a bonus £1 in your Sun Savers wallet tomorrow. And the good news doesn’t stop with free cash.

With Sun Savers, we give you the best hacks, deals and tips to save money every single day.

TO JOIN: Don’t worry, folks — joining takes just 30 seconds, in three steps.

PRICES correct at time of going to press. Deals/offers subject to availability.

Martin Lewis explains his New Year money-saving resolutions to help you save THOUSANDS of pounds