Fresh ginger is hugely popular in the European market and China is one of the largest ginger exporters in the world. The annual production volume of Chinese ginger is enormous. Furthermore, Chinese exporters understand the requirements of the European market.

A growing number of Chinese export companies are opening branch offices in Europe to provide better services. Yantai Yitian Food Co., Ltd. is one of these companies.

Mr. Lei Xue recently talked about opening overseas branch offices, "We established offices in the Netherlands and Dubai in order to react to market changes in a timely manner. This will help us provide high quality service to our European clients. As for our ginger export, we opened an office in the Netherlands to better understand the varied requirements customers have for fresh ginger packaging. We hope this office will help us improve the level of our service in the Netherlands. Our delivery rate is growing at 10% per year and has been for the last few years. The food and drink industry absorbs a certain volume of fresh ginger. In addition, an increasing number of consumers becomes aware of the health benefits of ginger, and consumer demand for fresh ginger continues to grow."

"We are an export company with more than 15 years of experience in the export industry. We mainly export fresh ginger and honey pomelo. Our main export markets are in Europe and the Middle East. We have supplied fresh ginger and honey pomelo to European supermarkets for years, and all our certificates are up to date: GGAP, GRASP, BRC, SMETA, etc. We are very familiar with European market requirements for product quality and pesticide residue. Our company supplies products based on the concrete requirements of individual clients. We cooperate with local farmers and pay careful attention to the pesticide that is used during the growing process. Furthermore, we teach local farmers how to produce top-quality, safe food products. We have a strict system that allows us to trace every product from plantation through processing to retail, and helps us reassure clients that our products are safe."

Apart from this, Mr. Lei Xue also mentioned that conditions in the honey pomelo market changed this year. "The overall production volume of honey pomelo in the production season of 2019-2020 declined, but the honey pomelo export volume increased. Our export volume increased by 10% in comparison with last year. In general, the domestic production volume of citrus fruit continues to grow and now that Russia closed its market for Chinese citrus fruit, the pressure on the price of citrus fruit will grow. However, only China produces a sufficient supply of honey pomelo, so the position of Chinese honey pomelo in the international market is quite strong. If the Russian market is still closed for Chinese citrus fruit when the 2020 honey pomelo production season begins, then this will have a significant effect on the domestic market. The European market will not suffer major consequences, because the European market demand for honey pomelo is quite small, unlike Russian market demand."

"Yitian Food will participate in the Berlin Fruit Logistica on February 5-7 to explore business opportunities in the European market. All visitors are welcome at our company stand in hall 26 at booth D-13."

For more information:

Mr. Lei Xue

Yantai Yitian Food Co., Ltd.

Tel.: +86 535 639 2266

E-mail: xuelei@yitianfood.cn

Website: www.yitianfood.cn