Shanghai (Gasgoo)- Leading Ideal said the in-car version of the popular messaging app WeChat will be introduced to its vehicles, one of highlights to the continuous OTA (over-the-air) software updates the startup is going to complete before May.

This will allow the car owners of the Leading Ideal One SUVs to activate the WeChat app by pressing the button at the multifunctional steering wheel, and send or receive messages through voice commands.

(Photo source: Leading Ideal)



The Tencent's in-car WeChat platform is designed to improve road safety by minimizing the frequency for drivers to stare at or touch their phone screens while they are on journey.

Since the in-car app was launched last year, the developer Tencent has been approached by many domestic and overseas automakers who intend to have the in-vehicle WeChat facilitate their users.

Prior to the Leading Ideal One, there are four models that have been equipped with the messaging platform.







（Photo source: GAC Motor)

GAC Trumpchi's second-generation GS4 is the first mass-produced WeChat-enabled model. Users can activate the function by pressing the specific button at the steering wheel or touching the icon at the center console display.



（Photo source: Haval)



Great Wall Motor (GWM)'s 2020 Haval F5 also features a button at its steering wheel for drivers to control their in-car WeChat app. Besides, the function can be operated through voice control as well.

The SUV is powered by the Fun-Life, an ICV system jointly developed by GWM and Tencent Auto Intelligence, which is available for voiceprint recognition and simultaneous login of many IDs.



（Photo source: Changan Automobile)



At the 2019 Smart China Expo, Changan Automobile for the first time demonstrated the in-car WeChat feature of its CS75 PLUS. The application will be used in the premium version of the well-received SUV model this year.



The other one is the E-Rock from Changan New Energy. Based on the CS55 Plus, the all-electric SUV is said to hit the market in April 2020.

Gasgoo not only offers timely news and profound insight about China auto industry, but also help with business connection and expansion for suppliers and purchasers via multiple channels and methods. Buyer service: buyer-support@gasgoo.com Seller Service: seller-support@gasgoo.com

All Rights Reserved. Do not reproduce, copy and use the editorial content without permission. Contact us: autonews@gasgoo.com.