The most important lesson I learned during my time in Ohio was the value of strong leadership. Leaders have integrity and loyalty; they often sacrifice for those they lead. Above all, leaders focus on the bigger picture, never allowing smaller details of the present to cloud their larger vision for the future.

In earning my MBA at Ohio State University, I learned about accounting, management and finance — but it was what I learned about leadership that stuck with me throughout my military career in the next three decades. During my service, among other posts, I commanded the U.S. Air Force Strategic Missile Center at Vandenberg Air Force Base; held ground-breaking nuclear forums with leaders of the Russian Federation Strategic Rocket Forces; and at one point held the command responsible for all U.S. intercontinental ballistic missiles.

Strategic leadership, whether it was deciding how best to inform and protect more than 14,000 servicemen and women or determining the implementation of strategic nuclear weapons intelligence, has been key to my career.

I’m concerned about the vision that our country’s leaders have laid out for our future security. Agreements such as the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty were a key factor in my military leadership. Without agreements like this treaty, my service as deputy commander in chief and chief of staff of U.S. Strategic Command would have been very different.

Now, New START will expire in one year unless it is extended by the U.S. and Russian presidents. I urge Sen. Rob Portman to support Senate Bill 2394 and commit to a clean extension for New START in order to protect vital national security priorities.

There are two key elements of New START that make it, and agreements like it, valuable to military leaders such as myself: inspections and weapons caps. This treaty mandates a rigorous verification regime, with American inspectors on the ground in Russia routinely enforcing inspections of Russia’s arsenal. This information is of the highest importance to our country’s national security and defense officials, who must leverage all available intelligence sources to make strategic military decisions.

New START also limits the U.S. and Russia to the same number of deployed strategic nuclear warheads and deployed delivery systems. These caps, as they’re called, stabilize both countries, helping to prevent the kind of nuclear arms race we saw during the Cold War because they limit what can be developed.

New START is now the only legally binding agreement limiting the world’s two largest nuclear arsenals and its future is uncertain. While Russia has been vocal about extending the treaty, some who oppose extension say that it “ties our hands” from confronting greater threats: a nuclear China or new Russian technologies. But according to experts, the size of China’s nuclear arsenal is a fraction of our own. Chinese officials have also explicitly told the U.S. that they’re just not interested in negotiating any agreement related to their nuclear weapons.

As for new Russian weapons technology under development, the two systems closest to deployment would be limited under New START. The rest of their rumored technology will likely not be deployed until after 2026 at the earliest, when the extension of the treaty has ended, and a new agreement would take effect.

Last year, several members of Congress, including Portman’s colleagues Sens. Todd Young, R-Ind., and Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., introduced bipartisan legislation urging the president to extend New START. I urge Portman to support this legislation, and I believe his support will send a powerful message to the president as well as other world leaders.

My time in Ohio, and my career in the military, taught me what it means to be a good leader — strategic, forward thinking and unafraid to face complex challenges. Through vigorous intelligence gathering as well as strict weapons caps, New START gives those who serve this country, whether in the intelligence community, our military or even the diplomatic corps, important information that helps them do their jobs and ensure our country’s national security.

During my Air Force career, I had the honor of interacting with some of the legendary and courageous strategic thinkers of the Cold War era. They recognized the enormous value of arms control and fought tirelessly to secure strategic arms treaties that formed the precedent and foundation of New START.

Great leaders understand that it is far better to build a solid foundation than it is to destroy a working system. New START is working to keep our country safe and secure. I urge Portman to recognize this fact and ensure that our country will continue to enjoy the safety and security of agreements like New START.

Lt. Gen. Arlen “Dirk” Jameson is the former deputy commander of U.S. Strategic Command who served more than 30 years with the U.S. Air Force. He is a senior adviser to the Center for Climate and Security.