Jan 23, 2020 (The Expresswire) -- Key Segments Covered in Bakery Products Market Report Distribution Channel are Retail Stores, Artisan Bakers, Foodservice, Online Channels and Others

The global bakery market is expected to gain momentum from the ever-increasing urbanization, which is further resulting in a rise in the demand for convenience food. The United Nations declared that approximately 55% of the world population was residing in urban areas in 2018.

Fortune Business Insights profiles some of the prominent market players operating in the global bakery products market. They are as follows:

Grupo Bimbo

Finsbury Food Group

Yamazaki Baking

Kraft Foods

Flowers Foods

Rich Products

Associated British Foods

Oetker

General Mills

CSM Bakery Solutions

The Campbell Soup Company

Fuji Baking Group

Other key market players

It is projected to reach around 68% by 2050. This information is published in an upcoming report by Fortune Business Insights, titled, “Bakery Products Market Size, Share and Industry Analysis, By Product Type (Bread, Cookies, Crackers, others), By Form (Fresh, Frozen), By Nature (Conventional, Organic), By Distribution Channel (Retail Stores, Artisan Bakers, Foodservice, Online Channels, Others) and Regional Forecast, 2019-2026.”

To Gain More Insights into the Market with Detailed Table of Content and Figures, Click Here: https://www.fortunebusinessinsights.com/industry-reports/bakery-products-market-101472

The report provides accurate predictions on the future trends of the global bakery products market as well as the changes in consumer behaviors. It presents comprehensive information regarding the growth drivers, challenges, key market players, regions, and other similar aspects of the global market. Furthermore, it offers a precise estimation of the market size, CAGR, and competitive landscape.

Bread Sub-segment to Exhibit Rapid Growth Owing to Increasing Consumption

In terms of products, the global bakery products market is grouped into cakes and pastries, crackers, cookies, bread, and others. Out of these, the bread sub-segment is anticipated to dominate the global bakery products market during the forecast period. The huge consumer base for bread around the world is one of the most significant reasons for its growth.

In Europe, in 2014, this segment had accounted for around 79% of the market share. Also, in other developed countries, bread is considered to be a staple food and therefore, its demand is projected to grow steadily in the coming years. However, in developing nations, its demand will rise due to the high growth of population.

Increasing Number of Small Bakery Product Manufacturers to Favor Growth in Europe

The global bakery products market is geographically categorized into the Middle East and Africa, North America, Latin America, Asia Pacific, and Europe. Amongst these regions, Europe is anticipated to lead the global bakery market during the forecast period due to the rising consumption of bakery products in developed countries, namely, France, Italy, and Germany.

Get Sample PDF Brochure:

https://www.fortunebusinessinsights.com/enquiry/request-sample-pdf/bakery-products-market-101472

The International Association of Plant Bakers (AIBI) stated that, Germany, Greece, Ukraine, Bulgaria, and Turkey are the top five nations that are exhibiting high per capita consumption of bread products.

Additionally, an increasing number of small manufacturers, as well as the existence of renowned market players in the European countries, are projected to positively impact the market growth in this region in the coming years.

Asia Pacific, on the other hand, is expected to exhibit significant growth in the forthcoming years. It is likely to occur due to the high per capita income of people living in emerging countries, such as India, Japan, and China.

Besides, the rate of women's employment is growing day by day, which is further resulting in a rise in the demand for ready-to-eat and convenience food items in this region. All these factors will contribute to the growth of the market.

Major Segmentation

Bread

Cookies

Crackers

Cakes and Pastries

Others

By Form

Fresh

Frozen

By Nature

Conventional

Organic

By Distribution Channel

Retail Stores

Artisan Bakers

Foodservice

Online Channels

Others

By Geography

Mondelez's Cadbury Unveils Dairy Milk with 30% Less Sugar for Health Conscious People

Mondelez's Cadbury, a multinational confectionery company, headquartered in the U.K., announced the expansion of its Cadbury Dairy Milk chocolate range in July 2019. The company unveiled the new Dairy Milk that contains 30% less sugar, especially for the health-conscious people.

The company had been observing a rise in the awareness programs and a rapid shift of the urban population towards healthy snacking options. The chocolate was under development process for the last couple of years at the company’s research and development facilities in the U.K. and India, with a highly skilled team of chocolatiers, nutritionists, and scientists.

The main focus of the team was to offer the consumers the original taste of Dairy Milk while putting 30% less sugar and no artificial colors, sweeteners, calories, or preservatives.

Have Any Query? Ask Our Experts:

https://www.fortunebusinessinsights.com/enquiry/speak-to-analyst/bakery-products-market-101472

About Us:

Fortune Business Insights™ offers expert corporate analysis and accurate data, helping organizations of all sizes make timely decisions. We tailor innovative solutions for our clients, assisting them to address challenges distinct to their businesses. Our goal is to empower our clients with holistic market intelligence, giving a granular overview of the market they are operating in.

Our reports contain a unique mix of tangible insights and qualitative analysis to help companies achieve sustainable growth. Our team of experienced analysts and consultants use industry-leading research tools and techniques to compile comprehensive market studies, interspersed with relevant data.

At Fortune Business Insights™ we aim at highlighting the most lucrative growth opportunities for our clients. We, therefore, offer recommendations, making it easier for them to navigate through technological and market-related changes. Our consulting services are designed to help organizations identify hidden opportunities and understand prevailing competitive challenges.

Contact Us:

Fortune Business Insights™ Pvt. Ltd.

308, Supreme Headquarters,

Survey No. 36, Baner,

Pune-Bangalore Highway,

Pune - 411045, Maharashtra, India.

Phone:

US :+1 424 253 0390

UK : +44 2071 939123

APAC : +91 744 740 1245

Email: sales@fortunebusinessinsights.com

Website: Fortune Business Insights

Follow us on:

LinkedIn | Twitter | Blogs

Press Release Distributed by The Express Wire

To view the original version on The Express Wire visit Bakery Products Market Update in 2020 by Industry Size, Share and Global Demand by 2026

COMTEX_360941191/2598/2020-01-23T04:07:38