OLDTOWN White Coffee Malaysia has appointed Kingdom Digital to manage social media duties for a year. The incumbent on the account was Reprise Digital and Kingdom Digital's spokesperson told A+M that the company sought to appoint a new agency without a pitch when the contract with the incumbent ended.

According to the company's head of marketing communications Jay Chong, Kingdom Digital was selected because it demonstrated a creative approach to social media marketing that is grounded in human insights. Chong added that it looks forward to seeing more exciting and innovative ideas from Kingdom Digital that will take its relationships with customers to the next level. Meanwhile, the agency's head of strategy Edmund Lou said that it did not rely entirely on data for the pitch. Rather, it dug deep into Malaysians and their coffee habits to form a tailored content strategy for OLDTOWN White Coffee.

To kick off the relationship, both parties recently launched a Chinese New Year social media contest to promote its festive Twin Pack White Coffee. Titled “鼠年吉祥语”, which loosely translates to auspicious greetings for the Year of the Rat, the campaign featured a series of Chinese New Year wishes created as Instagram GIF stickers but with a twist – the word "鼠" (rat) has been creatively dubbed in various Chinese sayings and translated to phrases that the youngsters can relate to.

The campaign is supported by social media postings and ads on Facebook and Instagram to drive awareness and participation and ends on 8 February. Consumers interested in the contest can purchase an OLDTOWN White Coffee Chinese New Year Twin Pack, post an Instagram Story of them giving the pack to another person, include the quirky GIF stickers on the post and tag @oldtownwhitecoffee. The GIF stickers can be found by searching the keywords "oldtown white coffee" on Instagram. OLDTOWN White Coffee will reward the most creative posts with cash prizes and Shopee e-vouchers.

Lou explained that instead of trying to be creative with different adaptations of the rat, it ran with the human insight of how the Chinese language can be spun in different creative ways with humour at the heart of the messages.