The China Machinery Engineering Corporation (CMEC) donated five heavy vehicles used in their Gampaha, Attanagalla, Minuwangoda integrated water supply scheme, to the Na Sevana Community Development Project, which is an educational programme affiliated to the Gangarama Temple in Colombo.



The water supply scheme in Attanagalla is one of the many mega projects CMEC has undertaken. The equipment consisting of a JCB-3CX backhoe loader, Komatsu PC200-8 hydraulic excavator, a tractor trailer, a water bowser, TAFE tractor 45 DI (45HP) and a Komatsu excavator 30-6, which were donated at the recent ceremony held at the Gangarama temple premises is valued at Rs. 18 million.



Venerable Dr. Kirinde Assaji Thera of the Gangarama Temple, speaking at the event said, “The Gangarama Temple established the Jinarathana Vocational Training Centre in 1978 with the intention of giving school leavers an opportunity of training for a vocation. Hundreds of thousands of students have benefitted from the centre making livelihoods for themselves both in Sri Lanka and overseas.”



“In 2008, we initiated an agrarian project to help the farming community and have established a model farm and dairy farm in a particular village. We select crops that can be grown in a short period of time and are working on a mechanism to manage water, especially in the dry zone. Therefore, China Machinery Engineering Corporation presenting some of their machinery to us is symbolic and greatly appreciated.”



Qian Hao Jun, the Project Manager of the Gampaha, Attanagalla, Minuwangoda integrated water supply scheme, CMEC said, “We are happy to be a part of this programme which is to empower the youth of this country in a meaningful way. CMEC is a company that has been working on several infrastructure projects which directly impact communities. Therefore, we see ventures like this that support the community and uplift the youth, as an important social responsibility objective of the company.”



The Na Sevana Community Development Projectsupports rural farmers to cultivate unused land. Farmers’ markets have already been established in many parts of the country. The project also creates job opportunities for the youth in the area.