China-based Minth Group To Invest $87M In Tennessee

China-based Minth Group will invest $87 million to expand its manufacturing operations in Lewisburg, TN. The automotive supplier will create 254 new jobs in Marshall County over the next five years.

“We are thrilled to be expanding our operations in Lewisburg,” said Minth Regional General Manager Natalie Chin. “This will allow us to better serve our customers and support local communities. We are grateful for the partnership we have with the state and local governments along with TVA and various other entities. We look forward to working together to build prosperity in the area.”

Minth will construct an additional 236,000-square-foot facility at the company’s Lewisburg property for production of injection-molded, painted and chrome-plated plastic components to be supplied to automotive OEMs. The facility is set to be completed by 2021.

“Tennessee’s automotive industry continues to see major growth,” said Governor Bill Lee. “Tennessee is home to four OEMs, which makes it a perfect location for an automotive supplier like Minth to succeed. I appreciate Minth’s decision to expand in Lewisburg and create more than 250 new jobs in Marshall County and wish them future success in Tennessee.”

Minth designs and manufactures structural body, trim and decorative parts for the automotive industry. Worldwide, Minth has 40 production plants that support automotive markets in 29 different countries. The company supplies many world-renowned international automakers and together, Minth customers represent 80 percent of the total global auto market share.

“Foreign direct investment in Tennessee continues to be one of our state’s main objectives,” said Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development (TNECD) Commissioner Bob Rolfe. “There are currently 24 Chinese companies that are located in Tennessee, and we are honored that China-based Minth will continue to excel FDI in our state by creating 250 new jobs in Marshall County.”

Since 2013, TNECD has supported 12 projects in Marshall County, resulting in the creation of more than 1,500 jobs and $138 million in capital investment.

“Minth’s plans to expand its operations here is good news for Marshall County,” said Marshall County Mayor Mike Keny. “The addition of 254 new jobs over the next three years is extremely positive and will be a boost to our local economy. This expansion is exciting news, and it shows a great commitment to our county that this is where Minth wants to be.”

“I remember the day well when Jimmy Chen came to Lewisburg on June 13, 2017 to announce Minth’s plans to establish new operations in Lewisburg,” recalled Lewisburg Mayor Jim Bingham. “I could have never imagined that in a short 31 months after the company’s initial announcement that Minth would be making an even more significant announcement in its plans of operation in Lewisburg. We are so happy to have Minth as one of our community partners and are delighted in all things that the company brings to our city. Again, we thank and welcome Minth and wish the company every possible success in its plans here in Lewisburg.”

Want to learn more about Tennessee corporate expansion?

Considering Tennessee for your company’s relocation or expansion project? Check out all the latest news related to Tennessee economic development, corporate relocation, corporate expansion and site selection.