Nestled atop a residential hill on Staten Island, inside a rustic stone building that resembles a Himalayan monastery, visitors will find one of the most extensive collections of Tibetan art and artifacts in the United States. The Jacques Marchais Tibetan Art Museum was founded by art collector Jacques Marchais in 1945.

Marchais never traveled to Tibet herself, but was fascinated by the culture of the country and those near it, such as Nepal, northern China, and Mongolia. Marchais began collecting items from those countries and eventually built the museum, next door to her home, to share them with the public. On February 8th, Untapped New York Insiders are invited to tour the museum’s Library and Gallery space and learn about the future of the museum in a Q & A session with Executive Director, Meg Ventrudo.

The Museum is also a Museum Partner of Untapped New York Insiders, offering free admission to Insiders+ and Explorer level members. Not an Insider yet? Become a member today to gain access to behind-the-scenes tours and special events all year long!

Jacques Marchais was one of the earliest collectors of Tibetan art in the country. She acquired the items in her collection through auctions and estate sales. Eventually, her collection grew to over one thousand objects. The items Marchais acquired include sculptures, ritual objects, musical instruments, scroll paintings and furniture.

This year, the museum is celebrating its 75th anniversary! The historic milestone will be marked by The 75th Annual Gala which takes place on Friday, March 13th at the Richmond County Country Club at 7:00PM. Those who wish to attend the gala, or make a donation to the museum, can contact the museum’s Marketing & Public Programs Manager, Frank LeSaulle at fsaulle@tibetanmuseum.org.

Join Untapped New York Insiders for a special tour of the Museum of Tibetan Art on Saturday, February 8th where guests will learn more about the founder of the Museum, the history of the museum buildings, and the fascinating artifacts inside. You will also get to meet the museum’s Executive Director Meg Ventrudo!

Book Here

Featured Tour Explore the Jacques Marchais Museum of Tibetan Art with Executive Director Q&A 1 HOURS

Learn More

Comments