BEIJING, Feb. 21, 2020 /PRNewswire/ -- In 2019, the student renewal rate at Whales English has continuously remained at 80-85%, which is significantly higher than the industry average.

Through its commercial operations, it has achieved positive cash flow in only ten months, and net cash flow throughout 2019.

In the education industry, such remarkable achievements also allow Whales English to receive an olive branch offered by the capital market in 2020.

Whales English has completed its Series B Financing of 100 million RMB, which is the first funding for K-12 English Education Industry. More

Recently, Whales English, the leading brand of online K-12 English group classes, announced that it had obtained 100 million RMB in Round B of Financing.

This round of financing was led by China's leading alternative asset management institution - Sino-Ocean Group Holding Limited (hereinafter referred to as "Sino-Ocean Capital"). Leading the investment, Hike Capital and Fresh Capital co-invested, and China TH Capital served as the exclusive financial advisor.

Tom Wu, CEO of Whales English, said that after this round of financing, they will use the funds to improve product quality and service efficiency. They do not attract new users with discounts but mainly rely on getting new students by actual learning results and word-of-mouth marketing by the parents. They do not spend money arbitrarily and do not seek celebrity endorsements.

Whale's high financing provided a "lift" to the industry, with refined operating income rising nearly fivefold

Whales English is the only online K-12 English education brand in the market that is targeted at a "cultivating excellence" strategy. It is aimed at students aged 3-18 years. The selection of the native English-speaking teachers, the original American textbook material and implementing the "Three-fixed model" strategy (Fixed teacher, Fixed students and Fixed schedule) are all conducted very strictly to maintain high quality. Through the original intensive reading and heuristic teaching style, they help children improve their comprehensive ability of listening, speaking, reading, writing, starting from zero-based English, so as to cultivate their skills and increase international competitiveness. In 2018, it became the only enterprise that has been selected as a key project of the 13th Five-year Plan by the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China.

The capital market returned to a more sensible level in 2019, and the criteria for judging projects are more stringent, which also makes the advantages of companies with clear development ideas, precise positioning and excellent products, to stand out firmly.

This time, Whales English was able to obtain 100 million RMB of financing, which undoubtedly brought a lot of positive energy to the online education market as it was tormented with frequent negative news. The company also pointed out a new, fresh direction for the course of K-12 English in China.

According to statistics, Whales English has been in the leading role for the K-12 English group-class education industry in 2019, and has entered the Top Five in the online K-12 English industry in China.

With the general growth slowdown in the industry, the company bucked the trend with growth of nearly five times.

The rapid growth of premium users and income mainly depends on the renewal of premium users and word-of-mouth referrals. The virtuous cycle of not wasting money has instead brought more rapid and stable development in the cold winter.