AN EXPLOSION of colourful costumes, music and dance is returning to the city for Oxford's biggest Chinese New Year celebration.

The town hall event, which was last year attended by more than a thousand people, is organised by the Oxfordshire Chinese Community and Advice Centre.

It will be holding the special gathering for the 29th time on Sunday, February 2, this time to welcome the year of the rat.

ALSO READ: Celebrity-backed jumble sale raises thousands for women's charity

The celebration, which is partially funded by Big Lottery Fund and Oxford City Council, provides an opportunity for local Chinese people to mark the festival and for others to learn more about the country's culture and traditions.

Also known as Lunar New Year, Chinese New Year is the most important traditional festival of the Chinese calendar, changing each year depending on when the second new moon after the winter solstice is.

Each year is named after one of 12 symbolic animals in a repeating sequence, with 2020 the turn of the rat.

The Oxford event will take place between 12.15pm and 3.30pm, with two and half hours of performances, including music and dance, a community choir, children’s choir and dancers, a poetry recitation and comedy sketches.

Before the performances there will be a lion dance workshop to entertain children ahead of the show.

There will also be a charity raffle draw with a variety of prizes, with two return tickets from London to Qingdao, China as the top prize.

Last year organiser Lesheng Kong said the event, which takes an entire year to plan, 'means a lot' to everyone involved especially young children, explaining: "They're not living in China and Chinese New Year is a big thing over there - celebrated for 15 days."

In 2020 Chinese New Year starts on Saturday, January 25.

VIP tickets cost £30 per seat, with normal advance tickets £15.00 for adults and children over 13 years old, and £10 for children of 3-12 years old.

Tickets purchased on the door cost £3 extra for adults and £2 extra for children.

ALSO READ: Mum running OX5 for daughter Poppy

Snacks are included in the prices.

As seats are limited, guests are recommended to purchase tickets in advance at the Oxfordshire Chinese Community and Advice Centre, Princes Street, My Sichuan, Gloucester Green, or from Jing Jing Oriental Food Store, Café Orient, and Sir Sun’s Wok, all in Cowley Road.

Visit occac.org.uk.