CLOSE

Students play the traditional Chinese game of Mahjong while enjoying the festivities of the new year celebration. (Photo: Madeline Brik/FSView)

The start of a new moon, the Lunar New Year, is upon us. Although many cultures around the world participate in festivities, none compare to the Chinese New Year. While 2020 might already be in full swing, the Chinese align their fresh start with the new moon.

Instead of traveling to China to experience the grand celebration, FSU students, faculty and staff gathered at the Center for Global Engagement to welcome the Year of the Rat college campus style. The Chinese Students and Scholars Association created a presentation to ring in the Chinese New Year by putting together the holiday’s typical decorations and activities. Attendees got to learn about the holiday while participating in Chinese tea culture, practicing their calligraphy skills, playing Mahjong and sampling traditional dumplings.

A Chinese student teaches attendees how to write calligraphy. (Photo: Madeline Brik/FSView)

Draped in gold and red, the once ordinary auditorium hosted a celebration of global diversity and Chinese tradition. The room was packed with all kinds of people interested in learning about another corner of the world.

The beginning of the event was an educational presentation of the history and traditions of the Chinese New Year. The presenter, the former president of the Chinese Students and Scholars Association Zhichun Liu, explained various similarities between the Chinese holiday with the American Christmas in terms of how the holiday is treated and celebrated. “Just like Mariah Carey plays for Christmas, there is a Chinese song that plays in all food markets and department stores to get people in spirit for the holiday,” said Liu. There are many other resemblances such as the popular Christmas wreath which compares to the Chinese couplet- a decoration containing poetic verses.

Liu elaborated on why Florida State is sponsoring this event. “It’s important for us, the Chinese community, because we value this holiday a lot. We celebrated this holiday growing up and it’s important to promote an understanding amongst the FSU community because people have heard about the Chinese New Year, but they don’t understand the holiday,” Liu explained. “I want to build commonalities between Christmas and the Chinese New Year, both family-based holidays, to debase any misconceptions.”

With each new year, the Chinese have a representative zodiac animal that holds symbolic value; 2020 is the year of the rat. These zodiacs are ancient Chinese folklores that are playful. “People will say if you were born in the Year of Ox, you are kind of stubborn, the Rat is cunning,” stated Liu. “It’s a fairy-tale that acts as a mascot.”

Attendees may have walked in knowing little about the major Chinese celebration, but eager for the unique experience of getting a taste of a culture on the other side of the world. Being able to observe and interact with common features of the Chinese New Year is exciting. The FSU edition of the Chinese Lunar New Year has participants buzzing over the crafts they made and dumplings they consumed.

Read or Share this story: https://www.fsunews.com/story/life/2020/01/26/the-first-new-moon-before-start-spring-globes-chinese-new-year-celebration/4580971002/