Arkansas senator's backing likely means his leadership PAC will provide financial help to NH candidate

NH Primary Source: NH Republican Bolduc endorsed in US Senate run by Sen. Tom Cotton of Arkansas

(New Hampshire Primary Source is a regular feature of WMUR.com on Thursday mornings, with frequent updates throughout the week.)>> Download the FREE WMUR appCOTTON ENDORSES BOLDUC. Don Bolduc’s U.S. Senate campaign announced Monday the retired Brigadier General was endorsed in his first run for public office by U.S. Sen. Tom Cotton of Arkansas.Cotton is a U.S. Army veteran who served in Iraq and Afghanistan. He is in his first term in the Senate after serving in the U.S. House.Cotton praised Bolduc’s long military service, saying, “When I was in Afghanistan, I was comforted knowing that we had leaders like General Bolduc. Don is ready for this job right now, and I know he has the integrity, courage, and conviction to lead a positive strategy, and keep America safe. Amid the growing threats from China and Iran, he will bring the leadership that New Hampshire deserves.”The Bolduc campaign said Cotton will join Bolduc in New Hampshire during the campaign.Cotton’s endorsement means his leadership PAC, the Republican Majority Fund, will provide financial support to Bolduc’s campaign.Bolduc is in a three-person primary campaign for the Republican nomination to take on Democratic Sen. Jeanne Shaheen in November.

(New Hampshire Primary Source is a regular feature of WMUR.com on Thursday mornings, with frequent updates throughout the week.)



>> Download the FREE WMUR app

Advertisement

COTTON ENDORSES BOLDUC. Don Bolduc’s U.S. Senate campaign announced Monday the retired Brigadier General was endorsed in his first run for public office by U.S. Sen. Tom Cotton of Arkansas.

Cotton is a U.S. Army veteran who served in Iraq and Afghanistan. He is in his first term in the Senate after serving in the U.S. House.

Cotton praised Bolduc’s long military service, saying, “When I was in Afghanistan, I was comforted knowing that we had leaders like General Bolduc. Don is ready for this job right now, and I know he has the integrity, courage, and conviction to lead a positive strategy, and keep America safe. Amid the growing threats from China and Iran, he will bring the leadership that New Hampshire deserves.”

The Bolduc campaign said Cotton will join Bolduc in New Hampshire during the campaign.

WMUR US Senate candidate Donald Bolduc

Cotton’s endorsement means his leadership PAC, the Republican Majority Fund, will provide financial support to Bolduc’s campaign.

Bolduc is in a three-person primary campaign for the Republican nomination to take on Democratic Sen. Jeanne Shaheen in November.