For the first Art over Lunch of the new year, Zhang Enli will guide us through his collection of works at Hauser & Wirth. The gallery presents an exhibition by the artist titled, New Paintings. The presentation will showcase a series of paintings that reflect on the artist’s progression to looser and freer brushwork, expressing his own emotive intuition. While these pieces are explorations of Zhang Enli’s work in abstraction, many are anchored in figuration with descriptive titles.

New works for the exhibition such as The Single Mother and The Labourer (2019) are made with a diverse palette and application – dynamic brushstrokes are overlaid with colourful spheres, indicating a new style in the artist’s painterly aesthetic. In these works, Zhang Enli projects his own concerns and recollections onto the canvas, fusing the real and the imagined, in highly personal impressions.

The artist will give an insight into his work during the guided tour at Hauser & Wirth.

Program

12:00 – Guided tour with Zhang Enli

12:45 – Lunch (included in ticket price)

13:15 – End of event

We will meet at the entrance at 11:50.

This event is for Asia Society Members only. How to become a member?

Full no-show charge unless registration is cancelled until 24 hours before the event.

About the Artist

Zhang Enli was born in 1965 in the province of Jilin in China. In 1989, he graduated from the Arts & Design Institute of Wuxi Technical University and relocated to Shanghai to teach at the Arts and Design Institute of Donghua University, a transition that greatly affected his artistic practice and the evolution of his painting. Zhang Enli continued teaching at the University until 2008. Zhang Enli's paintings have been featured in numerous important exhibitions, including solo exhibitions at Galleries Borghese, Rome, Italy (2019); K11 Foundation, Shanghai, China (2019); Firstsite Gallery, Colchester, England (2017); Moca, Taipei, Taiwan (2015); Villa Croce, Genoa, Italy (2013); Institute of Contemporary Arts, London, England (2013); Shanghai Art Museum, Shanghai, China (2011); Minsheng Art Museum, Shanghai, China (2010); and Ikon Gallery, Birmingham, England (2009), a presentation which travelled to Kunsthalle Bern, Bern, Switzerland (2009). Picture: © A J Levy

About Art over Lunch

Art over Lunch is a monthly event series for members of Asia Society Switzerland. Each time, we visit an exhibition or a special part of a collection with curators and experts for 45 minutes followed by a small lunch. The tours are designed to give members a different view on the vast troves at the museums in the city of Zurich and provide an opportunity to mingle and discuss.

Art over Lunch is made possible with the support of Bergos Berenberg.