Central Catholic theology teacher Maria Dick gets to talk about faith with her students, but there‘s something more rewarding she gets from that.

Name: Maria Dick

School: Central Catholic High School

Residence: Canton

Age: 61

High school alma mater: Ursuline High School, Youngstown

College: Youngstown State University, Ursuline College, Walsh University, University of Dayton

Family: Children, Michael and daughter-in-law Kayle Crofford; Kevin, and daughter-in-law, Emily Crofford; Christopher Dick and Shannan Dick; grandson, James Michael Crofford. My father, Carmen Leone, inspired me to become a teacher.

Why nominated: Anyone who has attended or sent children to Central Catholic will agree with Mrs. Dick being nominated as the Central Catholic teacher of the month because any Crusader will tell you that Mrs. Dick is one of the nicest people they know. She is always willing to help any student, staff, or family member who needs a hand, she is our coordinator of community service, and always has a smile on her face, and no matter the situation she can find the positives. CCHS has a reputation of having teachers that everyone loves and Mrs. Dick is one of them.

Q: What do you teach?

A: Theology.

Q: What is the best part of your job?

A: My students and the people I work with are the best part of my job. We get to have so much discussion about things like how we should be treating each other in this world, what we can and should be doing to make the world better, to care for the earth and each other. An aspect of my job that I love is my students not only talk about faith, but make lots of effort to live their faith by being good to others and helping those in need. Seeing how my students and the people I work with care so much about working for what is good and right is the best part of my job.

Q: What is the most challenging part of your job?

A: There is always so much to do, so little time ... but that’s OK! We have to take advantage of the time we have.

Q: What secret to success would you share with students?

A: Make sure you are doing what you love to do and what is meaningful to you; and if your career is enabling you to help others in any way, you will be happier.

Q: Your students would be surprised to know that you ... ?

A: I am the oldest of 11 children.

Q: What’s your hidden talent?

A: Baking, especially pies. (It’s not really that hidden though.)

Q: If you weren’t a teacher, you’d be doing what?

A: Maybe baking, or sorting recyclables.

Q: After a long day at work, what’s the best way to relax?

A: Playing with and talking with my grandson James, or binge-watching favorite movies with my kids.