The party has also invited several political parties from South Sudan, China, Mozambique, Equatorial Guinea, Kenya, Burundi, Tanzania and Namibia

The party has also invited several political parties from South Sudan, China, Mozambique, Equatorial Guinea, Kenya, Burundi, Tanzania and Namibia

KAMPALA: The National Resistance Movement (NRM) Secretary General, Justine Kasule Lumumba, has invited Opposition political parties to attend the ruling party’s national delegates conference.

A statement by the NRM senior communications officer, Rogers Mulindwa, said those invited include chairpersons or presidents and secretary generals of Forum for Democratic Change, Democratic Party, Justice Forum and Uganda People’s Conference.

“She said her decision to invite these sister Political Parties follows a cordial working relationship amongst them under Inter-party Organisation for Dialogue (IPOD),” Mulindwa said.

Mulindwa added that the SG was optimistic the Opposition leaders would honour the invitation.

The party has also invited several political parties from South Sudan, China, Mozambique, Equatorial Guinea, Kenya, Burundi, Tanzania and Namibia to attend the conference.

NRM is set to hold its national conference at the Mandela National Stadium, Namboole, where 14,955 delegates are expected to attend.

The major aim of the conference is to amend the party’s constitution, which was last reprinted in 2015, ahead of the 2016 general elections.

As the country prepares for the 2021 general elections, the party will revisit its constitution to consider introduction of new provisions, especially regarding internal elections for the party.

Rebel MPs to be disciplined

Mulindwa quoted Lumumba saying the Government Chief Whip had already submitted the list of ‘rebel MPs to her office as directed by CEC a week ago.

The 30 MPs’ names will be submitted to the Disciplinary Committee headed by Al-Hajji Moses Kigongo for appropriate action.

The party has also invited several political parties from South Sudan, China, Mozambique, Equatorial Guinea, Kenya, Burundi, Tanzania and Namibia to attend the conference.