The 2020 World Life Science Conference will be held in Nanjing, capital of east China's Jiangsu province, from Nov. 13-15, it was announced at a press conference on Friday.

Besides the China Association for Science and Technology and the Ministry of Science and Technology, which sponsored the last conference in 2018, the National Health Commission of China, the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Chinese Academy of Engineering will be invited to join this time, said Wang Xiaoning, secretary general of the China Union of Life Science Societies.

With a theme of "Life Science for Health and Sustainability," the conference will focus on the advances in cutting-edge life sciences, the trends in the development of biotechnologies, and health issues of public concern.

Highlighting high-level academic exchanges and an exhibition of the latest achievements, the event is expected to promote exchanges and cooperation among developing countries and help make more breakthroughs in research and technological innovation, thereby contributing to global effort to address major illnesses, population ageing, environmental pollution and resources scarcity and promoting global sustainable development.

A total of 3,000 attendees, including 200 from abroad are expected at the event.

Esteemed scientists, including Nobel Prize winners, will be invited to give keynote speeches at the opening ceremony.

This year's conference will also feature the First World Life Science Expo where celebrated institutes and unicorns from both home and abroad will be invited to showcase their achievements in life science, biotechnology and health.

The conference will also feature 40 parallel sessions dealing with various hot issues ranging from gene editing, stem cells and regenerative medicine, immunotherapy and biotherapy, the prevention and control of chronic diseases, the prevention and control of public health emergencies, and population aging, as well as new advances in traditional Chinese medicine, agriculture and environmental sciences.

Inaugurated in 2016, the World Life Science Conference takes place biennially.