CANTON — The Northern New York Community Foundation has provided a $25,000 matching grant to the Canton Community Fund to support its Campaign for Canton and build its permanent endowment within the Community Foundation.

A portion of this grant was made possible by the Brookmar Fund, also a Community Foundation component fund. The Brookmar Fund’s advisors are Peter and Kathy Wyckoff of Canton.

The Canton Community Fund began its 20th year in September as an affiliate of the Northern New York Community Foundation. It was the first geographic-specific fund within the Community Foundation, created to broadly strengthen quality of life in a specific community and provide donors with a designated option.

“The people of Canton have led the way in building an opportunity for all to give where they live, in a way that has impact now and in the future,” said Rande Richardson, Community Foundation executive director. “This type of geographic-specific fund makes a meaningful difference in many ways. As the fund continues to grow and we are able to work more collaboratively than before, this will be a greater, broader force for good.”

To celebrate this significant milestone, the Community Foundation and the Wyckoffs have partnered to offer a matching grant to build awareness and momentum that will further solidify the Canton Community Fund’s role in the betterment of Canton. Together, the Community Foundation and the Wyckoffs will match contributions to the Canton Community Fund, dollar-for-dollar, up to a total of $25,000.

“We hope our part of this matching grant with the Community Foundation will help to increase the Canton Community Fund’s grant-making capacity and its recognition in our community,” Peter and Kathy Wyckoff said.

Canton Community Fund board president Neal Burdick said he and the board embrace the challenge to support and enable more and greater projects that will improve the quality of life in the Town and Village of Canton for residents and visitors.

“We are excited and honored to have been chosen for this generous matching grant from the Northern New York Community Foundation and the Brookmar Fund,” Mr. Burdick said. “The Community Foundation and Peter and Kathy Wyckoff have been exceptionally generous benefactors of the Canton community over several years.”

A portion of the Community Foundation’s commitment includes support from the Peter Van de Water Fund for St. Lawrence County. Mr. Van de Water, a Canton Community Fund charter board member, passed away in 2014. Mr. Van de Water was also the first St. Lawrence County resident to serve on the Community Foundation’s Board of Directors. His wife, Becky, remains an active supporter of the Community Foundation and Canton Community Fund.

“We are also grateful that Peter Van de Water’s legacy will provide a meaningful impact as the Canton Community Fund continues to support an area that meant so much to him,” Mr. Burdick said.

Since its inception in 1999, the Canton Community Fund has supported a wide range of programs and projects, awarding nearly 100 grants totaling more than $75,000 to nonprofit organizations that have helped to improve the quality of life in the Village and Town of Canton. The fund has been built by gifts from many individuals, families, organizations and businesses, as well as bequests and other planned gifts. Previous matching grants have also been provided by the Community Foundation’s board of directors.

To learn more about this permanent charitable resource, this challenge grant, and how to support its efforts now and in the future, visit cantoncommunityfund.org.