Nearly ten years ago, working in China allowed me the opportunity to visit Hong Kong for the very first time. The primary focus of my trip was to visit LEGO fan event Bricks Adventure 2011 at City University, and I was floored by both the hospitality and building skills of the city’s LEGO enthusiasts. I was equally impressed by the beauty of the city itself, so much so that I made two more trips to Hong Kong in the coming months. Therefore, when I saw this artful LEGO depiction of the city built by Hong Kong native Eric Mok, it triggered a wave of happy memories. Eric captures a view of Hong Kong Island from Kowloon, set inside a gold-trimmed sea scallop — it’s a lovely nod to Hong Kong’s nickname as the “Pearl of the Orient.”

Towering in the background are excellent microscale likenesses of iconic skyscrapers like The Centre, Bank of China Tower, HSBC building and Two International Finance Centre (the last of which you may remember from Batman flick The Dark Knight). These buildings are set against a mountainside, which you can travel to the top of by way of tram. Said tram will lead you to that unusually shaped building in the background, known as the Peak Tower.

Seeing as it’s microscale, there are plenty of other cool little details to spot. For example, there is a traditional junk sailing through the harbor.



You can also spot the iconic Star Ferry departing the pier; it’s the most scenic way to enjoy traveling between Kowloon and Hong Kong Island. When you get off, be sure to buy a Hong Kong egg tart at one of the food stands on the Kowloon side! To the left of the pier is the Hong Kong Observation Wheel, which opened in 2014.

Last but not least, we can’t forget the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre!

To top things off, the model is even animated. If you were wondering what the transparent-clear structures were, they feature animated lighting to replicate the evening light show on the buildings across the harbor. Check out Eric’s video to see it in action. The only thing that’s missing in this model….is me! Eric’s model makes me wish I had a boarding pass in-hand right now.