© Provided by N.C.N. Limited

Chinese Premier Li Keqiang holds talks with visiting Lao Prime Minister Thongloun Sisoulith at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Jan. 6, 2020. (Xinhua/Liu Weibing)

BEIJING, Jan. 6 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Premier Li Keqiang held talks with visiting Lao Prime Minister Thongloun Sisoulith here on Monday, calling for further development of bilateral relations.

Hailing the friendly relations between China and Laos, Li said China attaches great importance to relations with Laos and is ready to work with Laos to carry forward their traditional friendship, deepen mutual political trust, implement the action plan on the building of a community with a shared future for China and Laos, and promote cooperation featuring win-win results.

Noting the huge potential for cooperation between the two countries, Li pointed out that the bilateral trade volume increased last year against all odds.

China stands ready to work with Laos to promote the construction of key infrastructure projects and deepen cooperation in finance and agriculture, and welcomes high-quality Lao agricultural products to enter the Chinese market, said Li, adding that China encourages its competitive and reliable enterprises to invest in Laos and supports Laos's efforts in improving its people's livelihood.

Li also voiced China's support for Laos in hosting the third Lancang-Mekong Cooperation (LMC) leaders' meeting and said China is willing to work with ASEAN countries including Laos to facilitate regional economic integration and promote the signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) as scheduled this year to jointly cement regional peace, stability, development and prosperity.

Thongloun congratulated China on its development achievements and said the signing of the action plan last year on building a community with a shared future for both countries has laid a solid foundation for the two sides to enhance mutual political trust and deepen pragmatic cooperation.

Laos is ready to closely work with China for more mutually beneficial results, enhance experience exchanges on governance, and deepen cooperation in trade, investment, tourism and agriculture as well as the Laos-China railway project, he said.

Thongloun said his country will continue to promote trade facilitation, optimize its business environment and welcome Chinese enterprises to invest in Laos.

After the talks, Li and Thongloun witnessed the signing of several bilateral cooperation documents covering areas such as finance, information and e-commerce.

China's top legislator Li Zhanshu also met with Thongloun on Monday.

Li Zhanshu, chairman of the National People's Congress (NPC) Standing Committee, said the NPC is ready to work with the Lao parliament to strengthen experience exchanges on governance, advance cooperation between legislative bodies, provide legal guarantees and policy support for cooperation between the two countries, jointly improve their abilities to cope with risks and challenges, and promote the modernization of their own system and capacity for governance. ■