The International Gemological Institute (IGI) has expanded its operations with inaugurated new offices in the heart of Shanghai, in the presence of high-profile personalities and major brand representatives.

Moving after ten years from the Podung area to the prestigious Fosun building in the core of the Bund Financial Center, the new offices include multiple classrooms and a state-of-the-art laboratory.

IGI’s Shanghai base is positioned as a hub in the Asia-Pacific region and will offer enhanced educational and grading services as well as gemological information to everyone interested in gems and jewellery.

Story continues below Advertisement

“IGI’s Shanghai base will promote mutual understanding between IGI and the domestic jewelry industry and establish its reputation and influence among consumers, which leads the domestic consuming market to gain more internationalized information,” expresses Yan Nanhai, vice president of the Shanghai Diamond Exchange.”

“IGI was one of the few representatives of international companies that was invited to participate in the second ‘Belt and Road International Cooperation Summit Forum,’ a successful model of cooperation between Western and Chinese companies under the national strategic framework,” continues Nanhai. “We hope that in the new year, IGI’s Shanghai base will play a leading role in the industry.”

For decades, IGI has cooperated with numerous departments of the Shanghai Municipal Government to train a large number of internationally qualified professionals for the jewelry industry at the time. Even before becoming established in the region, IGI has been professionally supporting the local industry, working with well-known jewelry brands and independent jewelers to build a gem industry talent training system.

Established in China in 2010, IGI has trained thousands of people to become experts and provided extensive sales training for the country’s most prominent national and international brands. Through its School of Gemology, IGI can also offer Chinese future professionals an advanced curriculum culminating in a coveted IGI diploma.

“IGI serves industry peers and consumers, providing professional services and quality assurance and helps the jewelry industry to improve their skills,” says Roland Lorie, global chief executive officer of IGI. “With the rapid development of the Chinese jewelry market, IGI education offers the possibility for the domestic industry to improve acumen and gain international empowerment.”

IGI started in 1975 in Antwerp, Belgium, the birthplace of the diamond industry. Today, IGI has 24 laboratories and information centers all around the world. Over 800 dedicated employees and experts grade and certify every day over 10,000 gems and jewelry articles, including some of the world’s most renowned pieces.