23rd January, 2020 by Nicola Carruthers

Spirits producer The British Honey Company (BHC) has acquired Dodd’s Gin owner The London Distillery Company for an undisclosed sum.

Buckinghamshire-based BHC said the deal is part of its “ambitious” growth strategy for 2020.

Based in Southwark, London, The London Distillery Company (TLDC) was founded in 1807 and re-established in 2011.

In addition to its Dodd’s Gin range, the firm produces the Kew Organic Spirits range, a four-year-old rye whiskey, which claims to be the first London-distilled expression in more than a century, and the 109 Cask Single Malt.

TLDC exports to more than 20 markets around the world, including France, Germany, Italy, China, Australia, Thailand, Vietnam and Canada. The group recently signed new deals to export its products to Hong Kong and Macau. TLDC’s travel retail-exclusive Kew Organic Gin is also available in Hong Kong International Airport.

In June last year, TLDC appointed Boutique Bar Brands as its exclusive distributor for Great Britain.

Launched in 2014, the BHC produces fruit and honey-infused spirits under its Keepr’s brand. The range includes eight gins, four vodkas, two rums, two Bourbons, and seasonal offerings, as well as a whisky, which will be ready in 2022.

Michael Williams, founder and chief executive of BHC, said: “Honey is at the heart of our business and we are always keeping an eye on the wider market and the innovative use of honey in spirits.

“It was The London Distillery Company’s sustainable approach and award-winning Dodd’s Small Batch Honey Gin that attracted our interest.

“We were particularly intrigued by and impressed with its approach to producing premium spirits, and I am pleased to confirm that this acquisition of ongoing business will allow us to leverage both our synergies and differences.

“The combined business will offer an enhanced range of products whilst expanding into a new customer base, which includes major supermarkets, including Waitrose, and leading quality stores such as Harvey Nichols and Fortnum & Mason.

“We are very excited to merge the businesses and build our expert team, as we seek new ways to expand our offering and increase sales through additional channels here in the UK and around the world.”