TikTok star Yuvraj Singh, famously known as Baba Jackson on the Chinese video-sharing app, discussed his inspiring journey at length and said that Tiger Shroff and Michael Jackson are his favourite dancers. In case you are not aware of Yuvraj, he is the guy whose dance videos went crazy viral on social media after Hrithik Roshan retweeted a compilation of his clips ten days ago.

Smoothest airwalker I have seen. Who is this man ? https://t.co/HojQdJowMD Hrithik Roshan (@iHrithik) January 13, 2020

It shouldn't be surprising that Yuvraj is already an internet sensation and during his interview with India Today, said that it all seems like a dream.

Speaking of his early struggle, Yuvraj said, "Earlier, I used to make TikTok videos but they hardly got views. However, I continued with it. Gradually, I started getting a good response on my videos. I also improved on my dance skills. I did not have a mirror in my house and could not see myself while dancing or practicing. So, I used to see my shadow and practice MJ Style dance."

Jodhpur-based Yuvraj currently resides in Delhi ever since he was approached by a dance group in the national capital.

"I've learnt dancing by watching YouTube videos at home. I have been practicing MJ Style dance since the past 5-6 months. First, I used to make videos in my room, barefoot. Then, I bought shoes and later started making videos on my terrace. After my videos went viral, I got a call from one of the dance troupes in Delhi - Skeleton. Their director Harpreet liked my dance and called me to Delhi to participate in his dance group," he added.

Asked about his favourite actor and dancer, Yuvraj mentioned Tiger Shroff's name without batting an eyelid but also added that he admires Hrithik Roshan and needless to mention, Michael Jackson.

Of his unique dance step - the Airwalk - Yuvraj said that he discovered it while practicing.

Yuvraj is glad about the fact that his family supported him throughout his journey and said that he hopes to represent India in the future.

However, it is Yuvraj's message for parents and children that is quite impressive.

"No one should compare their marks and finances with the talent they possess. They shouldn't let their financial position act as a hindrance in pursuing their talent. I am an example of this. Also, I want to tell parents that they often compare their children's marks to that of others. But they must see what the child is learning instead because marks do not decide the future of a person," Yuvraj told India Today before signing off.

Watch the video here:

Yuvraj Singh has 1.7 million followers on TikTok and 17.9 million likes.

ALSO READ: Varun Dhawan's dance with Real Street Dancer TikTok star Baba Jackson is superhit. Internet says wow

ALSO READ: Hrithik Roshan can't get over TikTok user's viral moves. Twitter calls him young Michael Jackson