On January 21, 2020, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Minister of Foreign Affairs II Dato Erywan Pehin Yusof of Brunei co-chaired the first meeting of the China-Brunei Intergovernmental Joint Steering Committee in Beijing.

Wang Yi expressed, China and Brunei are close neighbors facing each other across the sea, and reliable partners, and have set a good example of relations between countries of different sizes based on equality. President Xi Jinping and His Majesty Sultan exchanged historic visits, elevating bilateral relationship to a strategic cooperative partnership. In addition, the joint construction of the Belt and Road Initiative goes smoothly, bringing tangible benefits to the two peoples and positive energy to regional stability and development.

Wang Yi expressed, the establishment of the China-Brunei Intergovernmental Joint Steering Committee is the important consensus reached by the two heads of state, which meets the needs of the elevation of bilateral relations, is conducive to promoting cooperation in various areas in a coordinated way and helps form the new landscape featuring political mutual trust, win-win economic cooperation, people-to-people exchanges, and mutual help among many parties. During this meeting, both sides further agreed to enhance mutually beneficial cooperation in ten areas including economy, commerce, maritime cooperation and energy resources and establish a number of working groups. This carries great significance to the in-depth development of bilateral relations.

Wang Yi reiterated, the Chinese side will continue to pursue the good-neighborliness policy towards the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). With a profound friendship and solid mutual trust, China-ASEAN relations will not be affected by any temporary incident. Nor will our relations be damaged by any disturbance from the outside. Wang Yi stressed, the Chinese side's position on the South China Sea has been consistent. We will adhere to properly addressing disputes with parties concerned through friendly consultation, work with the ASEAN countries to jointly safeguard the peace and stability of the South China Sea, and stay committed to safeguarding international law and the basic norm of international relations, including the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. To this end, we are willing to work with the ASEAN countries to continue to comprehensively implement the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties (DOC), and accelerate the negotiations on the Code of Conduct in the South China Sea (COC), so as to form a regional rule that all parties will abide by, further stabilize the situation in the South China Sea, better manage and control existing differences and strive for lasting peace and tranquility in the South China Sea.

Dato Erywan Pehin Yusof said, China is Brunei’s good partner and good friend. Spanning thousands of years, our friendship has become a model of mutual trust and mutual benefit and win-win results. The Bruneian side attaches great importance to developing relations with China, and is willing to work with the Chinese side to well implement the consensus reached by the two heads of state, speed up the joint construction of the Belt and Road Initiative, and expand mutually beneficial cooperation and exchanges in all areas, so as to propel Brunei-China strategic cooperative partnership for greater development. Reiterating to adhere to the One China policy, the Bruneian side stands ready to, together with the Chinese side, actively promote the COC consultations, and jointly safeguard peace and stability in the South China Sea.

Both sides also exchanged in-depth views on such issues as regional cooperation in East Asia and cooperation between China and the East ASEAN Growth Area. Dato Seri Setia Dr. Awang Haji Mohd Amin Liew bin Abdullah, Minister at the Prime Minister’s Office and Minister of Finance and Economy II, was present.