The China Chamber of Commerce in the UK, the 48 Group Club and the China-Britain Business Council on Tuesday night jointly held the "Icebreaker" Chinese New Year Dinner 2020 in London, discussing new cooperation between Chinese and British enterprises and the new development of Sino-British economy and trade.

More than 500 politicians and businessmen from both sides attended the event.

Chinese Ambassador to the UK Liu Xiaoming said at the event that the development of Sino-British relations should seize major opportunities to achieve new leaps in China-UK financial cooperation, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and open a new chapter of China-UK cooperation on innovation.

"In the past year, British friends from all walks of life, especially the business community, have been committed to the principle of mutual respect and mutual trust, and have made positive contribution to China-UK cooperation. I would like to express my appreciation for this," Liu said.

"It is my hope that, in 2020, you could continue working together with your Chinese partners, respect and trust each other, learn from each other and engage in mutually-beneficial cooperation," he said.

John Glen, Britain's Economic Secretary to the Treasury, said that Britain and China are "natural partners" and that the two sides have broad prospects for cooperation in financial services and the "Belt and Road".

According to Glen, there are many opportunities for investment in technological innovation in the United Kingdom, and Chinese investment will help the local sectors such as electric vehicle, aerospace, life sciences to unlock greater potential.

On the issue of climate change, Britain and China can jointly promote the development of clean technology and green finance, said Glen.

Stephen Perry, chairman of the 48 Group Club, said that the potential for cooperation between Britain and China is huge, and he hoped that the two sides would deepen mutual trust, achieve mutual benefit and win-win results, and establish closer economic and trade relations.

Fang Wenjian, President of the China Chamber of Commerce in the UK and General Manager of the Bank of China London Branch, expressed the hope that the United Kingdom will continue to adhere to the market economy and free trade, and provide a fair and open business environment for various local businesses.