On the morning of January 6, 2020, Premier Li Keqiang held talks with Prime Minister Thongloun Sisoulith of Laos, who was in China for an official visit, at the Great Hall of the People.

Li Keqiang expressed, China and Laos are friendly neighbors linked by mountains and rivers. The Chinese side attaches great importance to the development of China-Laos relations and is ready to work with the Lao side to carry forward traditional friendship, deepen political mutual trust, implement the action plan on building the China-Laos community with a shared future, and promote cooperation featuring mutual benefit and win-win results, so as to elevate bilateral relations and cooperation to new highs.

Li Keqiang pointed out, bilateral practical cooperation enjoys huge potential, and bilateral trade volume bucked the trend and increased last year. The Chinese side stands ready to work with the Lao side to promote the construction of major infrastructure projects and deepen cooperation in finance and agriculture, and welcomes more high-quality Lao agricultural products in the Chinese market. The Chinese side supports its competitive and well-established enterprises in investing in Laos and supports the Lao side's efforts in improving its people's livelihood. The Chinese side supports the Lao side in hosting the third Lancang-Mekong Cooperation (LMC) leaders' meeting and is willing to work with the countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations including Laos to facilitate regional economic integration and promote the signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) as scheduled this year to jointly facilitate regional peace, stability, development and prosperity.

Thongloun Sisoulith congratulated China on its development achievements in all areas. He said, the signing of the action plan on building a community with a shared future for both countries last year laid a more solid foundation for the two sides to enhance political mutual trust and deepen practical cooperation. The Lao side is ready to work closely with the Chinese side to implement the action plan, and push for more outcomes from mutually beneficial cooperation. The Lao side is willing to work with the Chinese side to enhance experience exchanges on state governance and administration, deepen cooperation in trade, investment, tourism and agriculture as well as make all-out efforts to implement the Laos-China railway project. The Lao side will continue to promote trade facilitation, optimize its business environment and welcome Chinese enterprises' investment in Laos. The Lao side stands ready to coordinate closely with all sides, including the Chinese side, to ensure the success of the third LMC leaders' meeting.

After the talks, Premier Li Keqiang and Prime Minister Thongloun Sisoulith witnessed the signing of multiple bilateral cooperation documents covering areas such as finance, information and e-commerce.

Prior to the talks, Li Keqiang held a welcome ceremony for Thongloun Sisoulith at the North Hall of the Great Hall of the People.

State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi, Vice Chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) and Director of the National Development and Reform Commission He Lifeng, Vice Chairman of the National Committee of the CPPCC Gao Yunlong and others attended relevant activities.

On the afternoon of the same day, Thongloun Sisoulith went to the Tian'anmen Square to lay a wreath to the Monument to the People's Heroes.