2020 is the Year of the Rat, thought of as a clever and quick animal that represents success and also contentment with a quiet, peaceful life. Join us in welcoming the Year of the Rat with performances, art and craft activities, and food inspired by Lunar New Year traditions across Asia!

Dance to the beat of traditional lion dancers as they perform throughout the building. Learn about the Lunar New Year zodiac, create crafts, and enjoy fun foods. A limited quantity of red envelopes will also be given to children.

This event is FREE and open to the public; please RSVP for planning purposes. Food and drink available for sale.

RSVP for Family Day

Performances by Huaxing Arts Group Houston are ticketed.

Purchase Performance Tickets

Lunar New Year activities will also take place off-site at The Galleria on January 26 and February 1–2, 12–5 p.m.

Please check back for updates!

Activities

All activities take place 11 a.m. – 4 p.m. except where noted otherwise.

Chinese Zodiac Game

Play a matching game to learn about the Chinese Zodiac and the Year of the Rat. Make a postcard featuring the zodiac animal according to your birth year!

Rat Race

Create a mask of your favorite zodiac animal and participate in a race to win a prize!

Dumpling Station

Using craft materials, learn to make and fold traditional Chinese dumplings.

Lion Dance Game

Try on part of a Lion Dance costume, or play a traditional Chinese drum. Dance to the beat and win a prize!

Lantern Making

Create your own Lunar New Year Chinese lantern!

Chinese Handkerchief and Fan Dance Demonstration

Watch a classical Chinese performance requiring skill, balance, and concentration.

Presented by Huaxing Arts Group Houston

Korean Lunar New Year Games

Learn Jegichagi, a game Korean children play in winter seasons, and Gonggi, a fun group game.

Presented by Korean American Society of Houston (KASH)

Chinese Paper Cutting and Red Envelopes

Learn to cut traditional Chinese patterns and designs that are given as gifts during the New Year. Children also have the opportunity to receive "red envelopes" with lucky dollars and to win the prize for the Year of the Rat through fun cultural games.

Presented by Huaxing Arts Group Houston

Family Photo Booth

Take a family photo with a Chinese Opera actress and Hot Mama 2019 International title holder.

Presented by Huaxing Arts Group Houston

Rat Mask and Hat Making Activity

In celebration of the Year of the Rat, create a fun mask and hat to take home.

Chinese Calligraphy

Explore traditional writing styles and receive your name or a simple phrase in Chinese characters.

Presented by Huaxing Arts Group Houston

Community Scroll

Inspired by the beautiful landscape scroll paintings of the Qing Dynasty, everyone is invited to add their own brush strokes to a community scroll celebrating the Houston community and the Year of the Rat.

Presented by the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston

Lion Dance | 1:30 p.m.

Watch a traditional Lion Dance throughout the building!

Performed by Shaolin Kung Fu Academy

Story Time | 11:30 a.m., 12:30 p.m., 2:30 p.m., 3:30 p.m.

Learn about the story of the Jade Emperor and the Chinese Zodiac.

Food for Purchase

Pondi at Asia Society Texas Center

Pondicheri's museum café offers a vibrant and innovative menu featuring everything from butter chicken to saffron shrimp and roti wraps.

Café Allure

Café Allure serves bubble tea, egg rolls, and traditional Chinese snacks.

Mobile Mai's

Featuring "Vietnamese Eats on the Streets," Mobile Mai's food truck serves banh mi sandwiches, vermicelli, snacks, and more.

One Dim Sum

Named one of Houston's 16 Hottest Restaurants by Eater Houston, One Dim Sum offers barbecue pork puffs, crispy beef puffs, curry chicken puffs, hot and sour soup, and chicken and corn soup.

Pepper Twins

Known for their Sichuan Chinese food, Pepper Twins serves hand-culture yogurt, chow mein, and their signature chicken wings.

Seoulside Wings

Boasting six varieties of Korean fried chicken wings, Seoulside Wings' food truck also serves rice bowls and fries.

Mochi Ice Cream and Japanese Snack Stand

Mochi — a Japanese confection made from pounded sticky rice with an ice cream filling — will be available for purchase, along with Japanese snacks.

Vendors

Cuiqingcheng Jewelry

Traditional and contemporary bracelets, earrings, charms, and more.

Tiny Sponge

Playsets, books, and more for the young and young-at-heart.

Ticketed Performances

Culture of China: Huaxing Presents Performing Arts of China

TICKETS: $5 Members, $10 Nonmembers

Performance times at 12 p.m. and 2 p.m. Each showtime will feature the same performances.

To celebrate the 2020 Lunar New Year, Huaxing Arts Group Houston joins Asia Society Texas Center to present a collection of Chinese music and dance. From modern interpretations to traditional tunes to classic folk dances, the performances highlight a variety of performers and dance styles.

Huaxing Arts Group Houston is a civic organization of Chinese Americans in the Greater Houston Area. The association has served the greater community through volunteerism, service, and cultural exchange with a patriotic focus on strengthening the Chinese American community and its relationship to fellow citizens.

Purchase Performance Tickets

Press Coverage

5 ways you can celebrate the Lunar New Year in Houston

Houston Happenings with Joel Luks: January 24, 2020

红红火火中国年 休斯敦华星艺术团精品晚会贺新禧

正月初一 休斯敦新春嘉年华年味浓

Asia Society Texas Center hosts Chinese New Year celebration

Houston marks the Lunar New Year

Major support for Education & Outreach programs at Asia Society Texas Center comes from Nancy C. Allen, Chinhui Juhn and Eddie Allen, and Mary Lawrence Porter, as well as The Brown Foundation, Inc., and The Houston Endowment. Additional funding also provided by the George and Mary Josephine Hamman Foundation, as well as through contributions from the Friends of Asia Society, a dedicated group of individuals committed to bringing exceptional programming and exhibitions to Asia Society Texas Center.

Presenting Partner