China-based Minth Group, a leading designer and manufacturer of structural body, trim and decorative parts for the automotive industry, will invest $87 million to expand operations in Lewisburg, Tennessee . The automotive supplier will create 254 new jobs in Marshall County over the next five years.Minth will construct an additional 236,000-square-foot facility on the company’s Lewisburg property for production of injection-molded, painted and chrome-plated plastic components to be supplied to automotive OEMs. The facility is set to be completed by 2021.“We are thrilled to be expanding our operations in Lewisburg. This will allow us to better serve our customers and support local communities. We are grateful for the partnership we have with the state and local governments along with TVA and various other entities. We look forward to working together to build prosperity in the area,” Minth Regional General Manager Natalie Chin said.Worldwide, Minth has 40 production plants that support automotive markets in 29 different countries. The company supplies many world-renowned international automakers and together, Minth customers represent 80 percent of the total global auto market share.“Tennessee’s automotive industry continues to see major growth. Tennessee is home to four OEMs, which makes it a perfect location for an automotive supplier like Minth to succeed. I appreciate Minth’s decision to expand in Lewisburg and create more than 250 new jobs in Marshall County and wish them future success in Tennessee,” said Governor Bill Lee.“Foreign direct investment in Tennessee continues to be one of our state’s main objectives. There are currently 24 Chinese companies that are located in Tennessee, and we are honored that China-based Minth will continue to excel FDI in our state by creating 250 new jobs in Marshall County,” added Bob Rolfe, Commissioner of TNECD “Minth’s plans to expand its operations here is good news for Marshall County. The addition of 254 new jobs over the next three years is extremely positive and will be a boost to our local economy. This expansion is exciting news, and it shows a great commitment to our county that this is where Minth wants to be,” said Marshall County Mayor Mike Keny.“I remember the day well when Jimmy Chen came to Lewisburg on June 13, 2017 to announce Minth's plans to establish new operations in Lewisburg. I could have never imagined that in a short 31 months after the company’s initial announcement that Minth would be making an even more significant announcement in its plans of operation in Lewisburg. We are so happy to have Minth as one of our community partners and are delighted in all things that the company brings to our city. Again, we thank and welcome Minth and wish the company every possible success in its plans here in Lewisburg,” Lewisburg Mayor Jim Bingham noted.“TVA and Lewisburg Electric System congratulate Minth Group on its decision to expand operations and create additional job opportunities in Marshall County. Helping to foster job creation and investment in the Valley is fundamental to TVA’s mission of service, and we are proud to partner with the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development and Marshall County Joint Economic and Community Development Board to help further that mission and support companies like Minth, have continued success in the region,” said Heidi Smith, TVA General Manager of Global Business.