SHANGHAI, Jan. 13, 2020 /PRNewswire/ -- Originated in Asia, Artyzen Hospitality Group aims to deliver culturally rewarding experiences to guests. The group recently announced a hotel management agreement with Chongqing Yuelai Liangjiang International Hotel and Convention Management Co., Limited to develop a hotel under the lifestyle hotel brand - Artyzen Habitat in Yubei District, Chongqing. Including this new project, the Artyzen Hospitality Group has 8 hotels in the pipeline and 6 operating hotels in Beijing, Shanghai, Macau and Hawaii.

Artyzen Habitat Yuelai Chongqing Landscape More

Artyzen Habitat Yuelai Chongqing Birds Eye View More

Robbert van der Maas, President of Artyzen Hospitality Group (centre right) and Wang Jumeng, Chairman of Chongqing Yuelai Investment Group (centre left) signed a hotel management agreement for Artyzen Habitat Yuelai Chongqing. More

As part of Artyzen Hospitality Group, which is a subsidiary of Shun Tak Holdings Limited, a listed company in Hong Kong Stock Exchange, Artyzen Habitat is a new lifestyle sanctuary that caters to the fast growing upscale market. Artyzen Habitat encourages guests to 'live like a local', whether in or out of its hotel, guests could always have a deeper cultural experience of the destination, feeling the social and cultural vibes of the local community.

Robbert van der Maas, President of Artyzen Hospitality Group says: "We realize that the needs of modern travelers are forever evolving. They are looking for local art, cultural inspirations and enriched travel experiences. The Artyzen Habitat brand embraces our philosophy of 'Art, Culture and Emotional Wisdom', and are designed with today's travelers' lifestyle in mind. Each of our hotels is unique and offers travelers original, creative and social spaces that allow them to seamlessly integrate business with leisure; and, authentically immerse with the local culture and community. Thoughtfully designed facilities enable guests to create their own 'individual' experiences.