CLOSE

From the Chinese New Year Gala in past years. (Photo: Special to the Press-Citizen)

Editors Note: Due to unforeseen conditions the Iowa City Chinese Association's Chinese New Year Gala has rescheduled its Chinese New Year Gala. While the event was supposed to take place on the actual holiday, it has been rescheduled to Feb. 29 at the same time and venue. The article has been changed to reflect this.

Users of the Gregorian calendar are already beginning to settle into the reality of 2020, but they might not as acutely aware of other new years still on the horizon.

The most immediate of the years-yet-to-be is the Chinese New Year, which this weekend ushers in the year 4718.

For the first time, the Iowa City Chinese Association's Chinese New Year Gala is being held at the Coralville Center for the Performing Arts, 1301 5th Street, at 6 p.m. on Feb. 29.

The event has been held for more than two decades in the area and has previously been held in local churches. This year, though, the food, performances and attendees will have a larger performance venue.

As a result, Suyun Ma, the vice president of the Iowa City Area Chinese Association, expects the typical turnout of 200 to be more in the ballpark of 350 this year.

"As a community, we are thrilled to know local residents and organizations are interested in Chinese culture and arts," Ma told the Press-Citizen in an email. "In addition to showcasing our culture and talents, we hope this event will be a chance for us to be better heard and represented in the Iowa City area and beyond. As individuals, we feel organizing and participating in this event is a great opportunity to achieve personal growth."

Standard admission to the event is $10, with senior citizens and students age 5-17 getting in at $6 and children younger than 5 being admitted for free. Performances will be immediately followed by traditional Chinese dishes being served.

"We looked for acts covering multiple types of performing arts, such as dance, vocal music, instrumental music and spoken words," Ma wrote. "We are very happy about this year’s acts, and believe they not only represent Chinese culture but also mix in arts from other regions around the world."

A list of performances is below.

Me and My County — Chinese Children's Chorus Club

— Chinese Children's Chorus Club Love for homeland, A glass of Wine — Xingyu Huo, soprano; Ming Hu, piano

— Xingyu Huo, soprano; Ming Hu, piano Arabian Dance in Nutcracker — Dance: Izzy Bach & Emma Bach

— Dance: Izzy Bach & Emma Bach Mozart Divertimento Kv. 136 — Yonth String Ensemble

— Yonth String Ensemble How Beautiful the Journey — Zhitian Zhu, soprano; Yonth String Ensemble

— Zhitian Zhu, soprano; Yonth String Ensemble Dance 'Eternal Love' — Dance: Health Dancing Club

— Dance: Health Dancing Club I Am From Qin Dynasty — Comic Dialogue: Youth Reading Club

— Comic Dialogue: Youth Reading Club I Love you China, My Sun — Hao Huang tenor; Ming Hu, piano

— Hao Huang tenor; Ming Hu, piano Sunshine on Taxkorgan — Jichen Zhang, saxophone; Bowen Liu, piano

— Jichen Zhang, saxophone; Bowen Liu, piano Qipao fashion Show — Qipao Dancing Show: Qipao Club

— Qipao Dancing Show: Qipao Club The shore of Lake Baykal, Flower and Youth — Chinese Chorus Club; Ming Hu, piano

Isaac Hamlet covers arts, entertainment and culture at the Press-Citizen. Reach him at ihamlet@press-citizen.com or (319)-688-4247, follow him on Twitter @IsaacHamlet

Read or Share this story: https://www.press-citizen.com/story/news/2020/01/23/chinese-new-year-gala-celebrates-new-year-coralville/4493083002/