SAN DIEGO (KGTV) — This month, households across San Diego County will usher in the Year of the Rat.

Chinese New Year begins on Jan. 25 and lasts for about 10 days, marking the beginning of the new year on the Chinese Zodiac calendar and one of several Lunar New Year celebrations, including Tết (Vietnamese), Seollal (Korean), and Losar (Tibetan).

This year, Lunar New Year celebrates the Year of the Rat. Those born under the rat symbol are said to be optimistic, energetic and well-liked.

In San Diego, there are a variety of energizing events to look forward to over the next month.

SeaWorld Lunar New Year

When: Jan. 11 - Feb. 2; Where: SeaWorld San Diego

SeaWorld is hosting a month's worth of Lunar New Year celebrations featuring amazing acrobatics, dancing and cultural performances around the park, as well as interactive activities for families and, of course, some delicious Asian-inspired cuisine for Lunar New Year.

San Diego Lunar New Year Festival

When: Jan. 17 - 19; Where: SDCCU Stadium

SDCCU Stadium hosts the San Diego Lunar New Year Festival, bringing dragon and lion dancing, firecrackers, games, a variety of local food vendors, and more for three days in celebration of Lunar New Year.

San Diego Tết Festival

When: Jan. 24 - 26; Where: Mira Mesa Community Park

San Diego Tết Festival hosts cultural performances like lion dances and traditional singing, dancing and singing competitions, karaoke, a pet costume contest, delicious foods, and the crowning of Miss Vietnam of San Diego 2020.

Chinese New Year Festival

When: Jan. 25 - 26; Where: International Houses, Balboa Park

Balboa Park's House of China will hold lion dances, a cultural performance, family-friendly crafts and calligraphy, and serve up some delicious traditional food as they celebrate the Year of the Rat.

San Diego Chinese New Year Fair

When: Feb, 8 - 9; Where: Downtown San Diego, Third Ave. and J St.

Celebrate Chinese New Year for two days downtown, where traditional performances will be held, lion and dragon dancers will perform, and delicious Chinese and Asian foods will be served. Guests will also learn all about Lunar New Year with Asian art and culture exhibits.

Further north...

Lunar New Year at California Adventure

When: Jan. 17 - Feb. 9; Where: Disney's California Adventure Park

Ring in Lunar New Year with Mickey Mouse and the gang in Anaheim, where California Adventure hosts Mulan and Mushu performances and meet-and-greets, Mulan's Lunar New Year procession, a lucky wishing wall filled with ornamental lanterns, kid-friendly crafts and activities, and a delicious line-up of eats.

Lunar New Year at Universal

When: Jan. 23 - Feb. 9; Where: Universal Studios Hollywood

Universal Studios hosts character meet-and-greets this Lunar New Year with Hello Kitty, Minions, "Kung Fu Panda's" Po and Tigress, and even a Mandarin-speaking Megatron. Plus guests can grab savory dishes from Mr. Ping's Noodle Shop, visit the park's wishing trees, or take in cultural performances and dances.