Tell the story of Chinese, spreads the voice of China. In order to further enhance the economic and cultural ties between Chinese people at home and abroad, build a bridge of global Chinese economic and cultural communication, excavate and pry the strength of international trade cooperation and national rejuvenation. The “One root, One dream Chinese New Year Gala 2020 and Chinese Roles Model Annual Ceremony had held on January 14 2020 in Beijing, China. The purpose of the awards was to recognise and inspire the Chinese from home and abroad who contributed to the economic construction of the motherland as well as made the outstanding contribution on promoting the global economic development. This is the most beauty of national conditions of life.

Mr. Teo Choo Guan, founder and chairman of Waki International Group and President of Waki Relic Musuem was awarded the honorary title of "Golden Tripod Award on Global Chinese Role Model" and "China 70th Anniversary Special Contributors Award on Global Buddhism Contribution Award with his outstanding contribution. In addition, the Committee decided to honor the Waki International Group on "Global Enterprise Outstanding Contribution Award”.

Mr. TEO CHOO GUAN grew up in a multiracial, multireligious and multicultural Malaysia. When he was young, he was a construction worker, this experience gave him the opportunity to meet up and make friends with different ethnic groups. Growing up in such an environment has made him realize that "respecting different religions, integrating into each other's culture, and tolerating each other's differences" could lead to a happy and harmonious life together. Under the leadership of Mr. TEO CHOO GUAN, WAKI International Group successfully broke away from the past business model, and ushered in a new high-tech era, and continuously maintaining stable development during this rapid change.

In the past, when science and technology were lacking, the management was generally "persuasive" and to win the belief of others; in the era of technological development, persuasion became a past tense, and people used "conquest" to communicate to gain the trust of others. Now is the era of rapid technological change, both our family and business are facing huge challenges: everyone is often in a dilemma state of "you and me seeing each other", it is difficult to change ourselves and to understand other.

Mr. TEO CHOO GUAN found that this "persuasion" and "conquest" communication method is outdated, and it is no longer possible to drive the team and others. Therefore in today's society, only by adopting a "payout" communication method that we could make a break through and to change the future. This so-called "payout" communication method requires us to be able pay out to inspire ourselves and others, by then everyone can “paying the effort together, experiencing together, creating the value together, enjoying the bright future together." The creation of the health business of WAKi International Group is based on such an entrepreneurial spirit, thus actively and happily paying out together as to share happiness and health with everyone.

In addition, for his continuously effort of doing humanitarian social works over 20 odd years, at the same time of promoting actively on the value of mutual respect, integration and tolerance,Mr. TEO CHOO GUAN has won numerous awards in the past few years as a widely recognition by the international community. These include the International Tara Prize in 2013, the Master of Arts in Honorary Buddhism from Maha Chulalongkorn University in Thailand in 2016, the Ashoka Buddhist Pillar Contribution Award in 2018, and the Gold Medal in Nakhon Pathom in 2019. Besides on 30 June 2019, Mr. TEO CHOO GUAN became the first Malaysian was awarded the "Sweden World Peace Award" in Stockholm's very solemn "Blue Hall".

Stockholm City Hall.

Media Contact

Company Name: Guangzhou Starry Sky Brand Marketing Co., Ltd.

Contact Person: Manager Chen

Email: Send Email

Country: China

Website: https://weibo.com/u/6001523199







