South China's Hainan Province will make continuous efforts to optimize the business environment in the Yangpu Economic Development Zone in a bid to facilitate the construction of the Hainan free trade zone and free trade port with Chinese characteristics.

As a state-level development zone established in 1992 in the northwest of Hainan, the Yangpu Economic Development Zone is expected to develop into a growth point of Hainan's high-quality development and a pilot zone of Hainan free trade port.

At a press conference on Monday, the working and management committees of the Yangpu Economic Development Zone unveiled a package of 40 measures in four fields, namely optimizing the business environment, promoting development of the advanced manufacturing industry, improving customs clearance efficiency and introducing talent, as the latest moves to prepare for the construction of Hainan free trade port.

Optimizing business environment

"The focus of building the free trade port is on creating a legal, international and convenient business environment," said Ren Yanxin, vice director of the management committee of the Yangpu zone.

The process of applying for starting businesses in Yangpu will be shortened to one and a half workdays, according to Ren.

Service windows for foreigners will be opened to provide better services for those who need residence and employment permits as well as foreign experts certificates.

Favorable measures will also be taken in areas such as investment, construction projects, administrative approvals and financial support for small and micro-sized firms.

Promoting advanced manufacturing

Yangpu has acted on the understanding that lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets, which is beneficial to developing an advanced manufacturing industry, said Zhang Jin, also vice director of the Yangpu management committee.

Yangpu will support the enterprises in aspects including finance and taxation and investment in fixed assets, land, logistics and foreign trade.

According to the press conference, enterprises of advanced manufacturing such as aerospace equipment, new energy vehicles, integrated circuits and high-end medical equipment will enjoy preferential policies when settling in the zone.

The move is aimed to help enterprises enjoy the dividend brought by the free trade port in advance, reduce their operating costs and strengthen their international competitiveness.

Improving customs clearance

Bordering on the Beibu Gulf in the southwest of China, Yangpu has a natural harbor, Yangpu Port, which is integrated into the New International Land-Sea Trade Corridor.

Yangpu Port is expected to develop into a shipping hub along the corridor, a trade and logistics passage connecting the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21th Maritime Silk Road, which has raised higher demands for the port.

To this end, Yangpu Port will take measures to accelerate its customs clearance, such as carrying out paperless cargo clearance, providing border check and marine services around the clock and improving the transparency of customs clearance.

So far, the port has opened eight shipping routes for foreign trade, linking southeastern Asian countries such as Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia and Myanmar.