See the 1.5 -ton fire spitting Daijayama dragon, and more than 40 different groups perform at Honolulu Festival, March 8, 2020. The Honolulu Festival is a platform for cultural groups of all ages and origins-- from remote areas of their countries, to local talent here Hawai‘i -- to share a part of their heritage through music, dance, and special presentations," said Hiroyuki “Keith” Kitagawa, Honolulu Festival Foundation

The Honolulu Festival, a diverse celebration of Asia-Pacific cultures, people and traditions will excite Honolulu with cultural performances, the magnificent Waikiki Grand Parade, and spectacular Nagaoka Fireworks show, March 7-8.

“The Honolulu Festival is a platform for cultural groups of all ages and origins-- from remote areas of their countries, to local talent here Hawai‘i -- to share a part of their heritage through music, dance, and special presentations,” said Hiroyuki “Keith” Kitagawa, president of the Honolulu Festival Foundation.

The festival’s mission is to promote cultural understanding and ethnic harmony among all people. This year’s theme is “Making the World a Better Place for Our Future, from the Pacific to the World.”

Hundreds of cultural performers from countries such as Australia, Japan, the Philippines, China, Taiwan, South Korea, and the US mainland, will be joining groups from Hawai‘i in a showcase of diversity in music, dance, food and art.

Events will take place in Honolulu at four locations – the Hawai‘i Convention Center, Ala Moana Center, Waikiki Beach Walk, and International Marketplace.

Free Cultural Performances, Sake & Food Fest, and Film Festival, March 7-8



The free cultural indigenous performances begin March 7 at 10 a.m., at the Hawai‘i Convention Center and the other performance venues.

On the first floor of the Hawai‘i Convention Center, attendees can enjoy a plethora of cultural exhibits, including the Ennichi Corner with games and activities for children as well as a craft fair with more than a hundred booths. Activities for the festival continue on the third floor with the Japanese Film Festival which features a tribute screening for Kyoto Animation Studio, as well as a pop-up planetarium in partnership with Bishop Museum.

For attendees 21 and older, the inaugural Sake & Food Fest is a must-try activity at the Hawai‘i Convention Center. The exhibit features a learning experience of how to enjoy Japanese-made alcohol and includes samplings of a variety of sake, shochu and awamori (an alcoholic beverage made in Okinawa).

On Sunday, March 8, the Honolulu Festival starts at 8 a.m. with the Honolulu Rainbow EKIDEN (running relay races) at Kapiolani Park. Attendees are also encouraged to visit the craft fair and other stage performances continuing at the Hawai‘i Convention Center, as well as the other venues.

Magnificent Waikiki Parade and Spectacular Fireworks Show Conclude Festival

Two of the most highly anticipated events, the Waikiki Grand Parade and Nagaoka Fireworks Show, conclude the festival on March 8. Starting at 4 p.m., whimsical floats, hundreds of spirited dancers, and live cultural exhibitions will parade along Kalākaua Avenue through the heart of Waikiki. The parade concludes with the showstopping 1.5-ton fire spitting dragon Daijayama.

Culminating the weekend celebration, the spectacular Nagaoka Fireworks show will illuminate the skies with sparkling pyrotechnics above Waikiki Beach beginning at 8:30 p.m.

The Honolulu Festival is made possible by the nonprofit Honolulu Festival Foundation with the support of generous community and corporate sponsors and Hawai‘i Tourism’s Community Enrichment Program. The Honolulu Festival Foundation supports educational and cultural programs for the benefit of Hawai’i’s schools, children, and community-at-large through public outreach and charitable efforts.

For more information, please visit http://honolulufestival.com. Photos can be accessed at the photo archive.