Katherine Touafek, School to Careers partnership director, was honored recently by the Neponset River Regional Chamber as the Paul Smith Volunteer of the Year 2019, having significantly contributed to the organization’s success for more than two decades.

The award was presented at the NRRC’s Rise and Shine Annual Meeting on Jan. 31 at the Four Points Sheraton Hotel.

Touafek was recognized for her achievements in the business community as founder and chair of the NRRC Education Business Committee; a co-founder of the NRRC Women’s Leadership Alliance; Women’s Leadership Alliance Steering Committee member; for serving on the NRRC Board of Directors; for serving on the NRRC Executive Committee; and for being NRRC chairman of the board of directors in 2007.

Her most significant contribution is helping the chamber fulfill its mission of connecting business with education so Massachusetts businesses will continue to grow while providing insights and directions to thousands of students in area public schools.

“This award is presented to the NRRC member who has shown outstanding commitment to the NRRC and its members, exemplified by the late Paul Smith Sr. – selfless giving of time, talent and materials to help fellow members succeed,” said Alisia St. Florian, NRRC board of directors chairman.

Tom O’Rourke, NRRC president and CEO, said the chamber has benefited tremendously from Touafek's dedication, talent and leadership.

Rep. William C. Galvin, D-Canton, chair of the School to Careers advisory board who attended the breakfast, said Touafek has been an extraordinary leader and congratulates her on this well-deserved recognition.

“I am delighted to see Katherine getting this recognition for everything she has done over the years for the Neponset River Regional Chamber,” said Superintendent Jill Rossetti of Blue Hills Regional Technical School in Canton, where School to Careers is headquartered.

Rossetti was among the guests at the NRRC breakfast.

“Her outstanding organizational and networking skills, plus her eagerness to help young people learn about potential careers and workplaces, have been great assets to School to Careers as well,” Rossetti said.

Touafek has been School to Careers’ founding director since 1996.

“School to Careers brings together schools and private and public sector organizations to offer industry-specific seminars, business-site visits, guest classroom speakers, mentorships, internships, shadow days and advisory boards to make academic learning relevant,” according to its website, http://schooltocareerspartners.org.

Photographer Matt McKee was honored at the NRRC breakfast for being Business Person of the Year. His son, Shalor, is a member of the Class of 2020 at Blue Hills Regional.