Chinese classes are back at Asia Society! This beginner course provides adult language learners with an introduction to the Mandarin dialect and Chinese culture. Through hands-on activities, cooking demonstrations, games, and technology, students will explore Chinese culture and language in a fun, supportive, and engaging way.

This course will cover the Hanyu Pinyin phonetic transcription system, as well as the pronunciation and use of many common vocabulary terms and idiomatic expressions. Students will create a foundation for long-term study and develop cross-cultural skills necessary for basic communication while in China for business or pleasure. This class emphasizes listening and pronunciation skills and does not require previous knowledge of Chinese.

Materials for the course will be provided.

Course Dates

Mondays, February 3 – March 23, 2020

Time: 6:30–8:30 p.m.

Part II Course

Mondays, March 30 – May 18, 2020

Time: 6:30–8:30 p.m.

About the Instructor

Sophia Chang teaches Mandarin Chinese at the Houston Academy for International Studies Early College High School. She teaches all levels from beginner Chinese I for High School credit to Advanced Placement Chinese. Her approach to language acquisition and foreign language learning has built a strong AP Chinese program, with many students traveling to China as a capstone experience. She is the recipient of campus the Teacher of Year award in both 2014-2015 and 2016-2017. In 2018, she was awarded the Outstanding Asian American Teacher of the Year in HISD and in 2019, she was named the International Teacher of the Year award from the World Affairs Council. She embraces the modern world we live in and loves to incorporate technology into her curriculum and daily teaching. Her students experience flipped classroom lessons, project-based learning, and digital collaboration tools that enhance effective communication.

Major support for Education & Outreach programs at Asia Society Texas Center comes from Nancy C. Allen, Chinhui Juhn and Eddie Allen, and Mary Lawrence Porter, as well as The Brown Foundation, Inc., and The Houston Endowment. Additional funding also provided by the George and Mary Josephine Hamman Foundation, as well as through contributions from the Friends of Asia Society, a dedicated group of individuals committed to bringing exceptional programming and exhibitions to Asia Society Texas Center.