SMM: on the evening of January 9, Golden Crown announced that the company intends to introduce Mingsheng TNS, a professional manufacturer of lithium battery diaphragm production line headquartered in South Korea, to increase the capital of Huzhou Golden Crown, a wholly owned subsidiary, to become a strategic investor of the company. After the capital increase, Mingsheng TNS holds no more than 40% of Huzhou Golden Crown, and the control of Huzhou Golden Crown will not change.

The introduction of foreign capital, for the Golden Crown shares can be said to be a great advantage. It is worth mentioning that just a few days ago, Tesla's localization, has made the main lithium battery diaphragm production of Golden Crown shares in A shares strong.

Analysts say Golden Crown shares are bullish in the future, benefiting from Tesla's localization concept.

Coded lithium battery diaphragm industry

According to public information, Jinguan shares entered the new energy vehicle industry in 2017, and successively acquired Nanjing Nengrui and Liaoyuan Hongtu, realizing the layout of charging piles and lithium battery separators in the field of new energy vehicles.

Recently, Tesla will deliver China-made Model3, to social users for the first time at the Shanghai Super Factory and announce the domestic ModelY project. The localization of Tesla will lead to a comprehensive upgrade of the domestic automobile supply chain, and the demand for automotive power batteries is expected to continue to grow. The lithium battery diaphragm material is the highest technical barrier and the most difficult part of the lithium battery raw materials, and the Matthew effect has appeared in the diaphragm material industry.

Liaoyuan Hongtu, a subsidiary of Golden Crown, is the most high-end lithium ion battery diaphragm manufacturer in China, the main products are zinc manganese battery diaphragm, high quality lithium ion battery diaphragm. In the "China Lithium Ion Battery diaphragm Industry White Paper (2015)" released by Sadie Consultants, Hongtu diaphragm is the first comprehensive ranking of domestic wet diaphragm enterprises, and the first in the "product and technical level". Zhao Hongyun, secretary of Golden Crown shares, also said in an interview that Liaoyuan Hongtu has a leading PVDF oily coating line in China.

The introduction of strategic investors for the subsidiary Huzhou Golden Crown, South Korea Mingsheng TNS, has a wealth of lithium battery diaphragm products technology, technology and overseas high-end market resources, is undoubtedly another effort in the Golden Crown share plus code lithium battery diaphragm industry.

Golden Crown shares said that the introduction of South Korea Mingsheng TNS as a strategic investor will help the company to improve the process and technical level of lithium battery diaphragm products, better expand the overseas market, and promote the rapid development of lithium battery diaphragm business.

It is worth mentioning that after Tesla announced domestic production, Enjie shares involved in the production of lithium battery diaphragm materials rose 30% in 10 trading days from December 24, 2019 to January 6 this year; plate concept stocks rose by more than 22% on average, while Golden Crown shares also rose 14.3%.

Analysts believe that the bottom of the new energy vehicle policy has emerged, long-term bullish on the industrial chain has the core advantages of enterprises, and benefited from the localization of Tesla, Golden Crown shares have great potential in the future.

There are hidden dangers to excessive goodwill

Although the future is promising, but the performance of Golden Crown shares in 2019 is not optimistic.

After rapid growth in 2017 and 2018, Golden Crown's revenue fell 13.22% in the first three quarters of 2019 from a year earlier, while net profit was 25.28 million yuan, down 78.07% from a year earlier.

For the decline in performance in 2019, Golden Crown shares said that the company's lithium diaphragm business was affected by industry fluctuations, sales revenue fell more significantly than the same period last year; the company's smart meter and charging pile business was affected by increased market competition, sales revenue decreased slightly compared with the same period last year; on the whole, due to fluctuations in related industries and increased market competition and other factors had a negative impact on the company's performance.

However, Golden Crown shares also said that the company is currently introducing state-owned controlling shareholders have completed share delivery and transfer, taking into account the impact of state-controlled shareholders expected to empower the company's business and other factors, the results for the rest of the year are expected to see a steady improvement.

The Red Bank risk mining system shows that the company's suspected financial whitewash and profit health level are abnormal in the first half of 2019. At the same time, the investment income of the company is greatly raised, and the proportion of impairment of assets is greatly raised. The cost of sales is increasing, and the accounts payable are negative.

The Associated Press reporter also noted that due to the previous bulk acquisition of Golden Crown shares accumulated high goodwill, a total of 2.146 billion yuan, is the potential risk of the current enterprise. However, for the problem of excessive goodwill, Zhao Hongyun, secretary of Golden Crown shares, said in an interview that whether or not there is an impairment of goodwill, it will not have an impact on the company's normal business and cash flow. The company will focus on developing the main business of "new energy + smart grid" and strive for excellent performance.

Industry insiders said that Golden Crown subsidiaries Liaoyuan Hongtu and Huzhou Golden Crown are building as many as 14 diaphragm production lines, and plan to form an annual production capacity of 270 million square meters by 2020. at that time, Golden Crown shares will form a total of 470 million square meters of diaphragm capacity per year. In 2020, the global diaphragm demand is 3.3 billion flat, the market space is nearly 10 billion yuan, with the current golden crown capacity and market prospects, the future is worth looking forward to. But at the same time, because the market competition will be more and more fierce in the future, enterprises need to pay attention to product positioning, quality, sales and other details to ensure performance improvement.

Scan QR code, apply to join SMM metal communication group, please indicate company + name + main business