On January 12, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi held talks with Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade of Zimbabwe Sibusiso Busi Moyo in Harare.

Wang Yi said, this year marks the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Zimbabwe. Over the past 40 years, the two countries have always understood each other, respected each other, supported each other and trusted each other, becoming an example of China-Africa cooperation and South-South cooperation. China is pleased to see that China and Zimbabwe relations have been upgraded to comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership, and Zimbabwe has become an important parter of co-buiding the "Belt and Road Initiative".

Wang Yi said, this year is an important year for bilateral relations, and the two sides should take this as an opportunity to further carry forward the tradition of friendly mutual trust and mutual support between the two countries, keep pace with the times, open up and take I innovative steps, make our cooperation and our relations more sustainable. China is willing to continue extend mutual support on issues related to each other's core interests. China will firmly support the economic and social development of Zimbabwe within the limits of its abilities. Two sides should strengthen the exchange of experience in governance, promote policy consultation and cooperation, and achieve results as soon as possible. China is also willing to coordinate and cooperate closely with Zimbabwe in multilateral affairs and safeguard the common interest of the two countries.

Moyo said, under the personal guidance of the leaders of the two countries, Zimbabwe-China comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership continues to consolidate. Zimbabwe admires China's great achievements in economic development. Zimbabwe thanks China for its long-term contribution to Zimbabwe's economic and social development, and speaking for Zimbabwe on international occasions. Zimbabwe will firmly support the core interests of the Chinese side. The two sides should take the opportunity of the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations, review and summarize the experience of the development of bilateral relations, and further set out the future direction. Zimbabwe is willing to learn from China's economic development and the governance experience. We should speed up the construction of "Belt and Road Initiative" with high quality and implement Sino-African cooperation projects under the framework of the FOCAC. We should strengthen communication and cooperation in international affairs, and uphold multilateralism together.