On January 6, 2020, President Xi Jinping met with Prime Minister Thongloun Sisoulith of Laos at the Great Hall of the People.

Xi Jinping asked Thongloun Sisoulith to convey his New Year greetings to General Secretary and President Bounnhang Vorachit. Xi Jinping pointed out, as good neighbors, friends, comrades and partners, China and Laos enjoy a shared future. The leadership of the communist parties and socialist systems of our two countries define our political nature. The two sides need to work hand in hand and side by side, maintain the tradition of close high-level exchanges, enhance communication on state governance and administration, jointly improve capacity for and adeptness at governance, and safeguard respective political security as well as the common interests of both countries and other developing countries. The Chinese side will continue to firmly support the Lao side in safeguarding its national sovereignty and dignity.

Xi Jinping stressed, next year marks the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Laos, and bilateral relations will enter a critical stage of inheriting the past and ushering in the future. China is willing to work with the Lao side to promote the building of a community with a shared future between the two countries, advance the alignment of development strategies, accelerate the construction of the China-Laos Economic Corridor, promote major cooperation projects in such areas as railways and economic parks, and propel people-to-people and cultural exchanges as well as strengthen coordination and collaboration in international and regional affairs, so as to elevate China-Laos comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership to new highs.

Thongloun Sisoulith conveyed General Secretary and President Bounnhang Vorachit's sincere greetings to President Xi Jinping, and once again congratulated the People's Republic of China on its great historic achievements since its founding 70 years ago. He believed that under the strong leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC) with Comrade Xi Jinping at the core, the Chinese people will definitely achieve the first centenary goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects on schedule. Thongloun Sisoulith offered his congratulations for the success of the fourth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee, saying that China's experience in upholding and improving socialism with Chinese characteristics and modernizing governance system and capacity is worthy of studying and learning by Laos. It also encourages Laos to unswervingly follow the path of socialism. The action plan on building the Laos-China community with a shared future reached by President Xi Jinping and General Secretary Bounnhang Vorachit has charted the course for Laos-China relations, and the Lao side is earnestly implementing the plan in an orderly fashion. The Lao side will actively work for the completion of important Belt and Road projects such as the Laos-China railway as scheduled, and play an important role in promoting economic development and improving people's livelihood of Laos.

Yang Jiechi, Wang Yi, He Lifeng and others were present.