Editor: Wang Liyan

The awarding ceremony of the "Inspired Women of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region in New Era" is held in Hohhot, North China's Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, on December 28, 2019. Two representatives of the honored women receive an interview. [China Women's News]

On December 28, 2019, the Women's Federation of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region held an awarding ceremony of the "Inspired Women of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region in New Era" in Hohhot, capital city of North China's Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. Seventy women in the autonomous region were awarded the honorary title. Seven representatives of the inspired women received an interview at the ceremony.

Zheng Xiaomei, a recipient of the honorary title and First Secretary of Liujianfang Village in Qahar Youyi Middle Banner, said that the honor was given to all the women officials who conduct poverty alleviation work at grassroots level.

"I have worked in the village since May 2014. At that time, the offices of the village committee did not have heating installations, computers and drinking water. I coordinated relevant departments to dig a well, set up a women's home for embroidery and established a loving supermarket in the village. The local women can earn income at home through making embroidery," said Zheng. According to her, they can also accumulate points by observing discipline, obeying all laws, and behaving in accordance with socialist core values. The points can be used to exchange goods from the supermarket. "Every change in the village makes me feel a sense of achievement," Zheng added.

Representatives of the award-winning women shared their stories about conducting poverty-alleviation work, inheriting intangible cultural heritages, participating in ecological-civilization construction, promoting the spirit of Ulanmuqi (an art troupe of the Mongolian ethnic group established in 1957, to give performances and publicize the policies and guidelines of the central government on the grasslands), carrying out the Party building work in non-public-owned enterprises, promoting the autonomous region though Internet and accomplishing the mission as a doctor. They showcased their unique power and talents to make contributions to the economic and social development of the autonomous region.

Representatives of the women who are awarded the honorary title [China Women's News]

Hudagula, President of the Women's Federation of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, said that the autonomous region's women's federation selected and promoted outstanding women in different fields to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. The honored women have made remarkable contributions and the federation urged all women in Inner Mongolia to learn from them, she added.

Representatives of the inspired women share their stories. [China Women's News]

(Source: China Women's News/Translated and edited by Women of China)