Wynn Las Vegas Celebrates Chinese New Year



Wynn Las Vegas celebrates the Year of the Rat this Chinese New Year with a collection of resort-wide celebratory experiences. At the center of the festivities is a dramatic and mystical traditional Chinese dragon dance symbolizing the spread of good luck and prosperity that will take place on Tuesday, January 28 at 6 p.m. (Photo credit: Jeff Green)

Two eight-foot golden dragons spread more good luck to visitors outside, while inside the resort the Wynn main atrium features spectacular 45-foot long silk dragons hanging above 7,000 vibrant orange, yellow and red mums, begonias and calandivas. Sitting amongst the flowers, whimsical gold-leafed rats wearing hand-crafted Swarovski crystal crowns are perched on top of gold coins, illustrating the wealth that rats symbolize in Chinese tradition. Additionally, the resort is dotted by 60 tangerine trees honoring the traditional gifting of this fruit to others as a wish of good fortune.

The beloved Chinese New Year Dim Sum Brunch which will return to Wing Lei, the only Chinese restaurant in North America that holds a Forbes Five-Star rating, from January 24 through February 1. With a masterful mix of Cantonese, Shanghai and Szechuan flavors, guests can indulge in a selection of dishes passed by butlers tableside, while others are presented on an extravagant buffet and carving station. Dim Sum Brunch is served from 10:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. and is priced at $75 per guest, excluding tax and gratuity.

In addition, several retailers in Wynn Plaza are offering exclusive apparel, accessories, in-store events or gifts with purchase throughout the month in celebration of Chinese New Year, including Diptyque, Ferragamo, Kenzo, Loewe, Marie France Van Damm, Moncler, Off White and Zimmerman.

For more information about the Chinese New Year offerings at Wynn Las Vegas please call 702-770-2120.

© 2020, VegasNews.com. All rights reserved. All content copyrighted or used with permission. All rights reserved. This content may not be distributed, modified, reproduced in whole or in part without prior permission from VegasNews.com