“BLUE BONNETS”: Paintings and calligraphy by artist Peter Chung will be on view in the Gallery at the Plainsboro Public Library from February 1 through February 26. An artist reception is scheduled for February 8 from noon to 2 p.m.

Artist Peter Chung will exhibit paintings and award-winning Chinese calligraphy in the Gallery at Plainsboro Public Library from February 1 through February 26. The subjects of his paintings — both Chinese paintings and Western- and Eastern-influenced oil-based paintings — include landscapes, wildlife, figures, still lifes, and architectural subjects.

An artist reception on Saturday, February 8, from noon to 2 p.m., will kick off the library’s 2020 Chinese New Year celebration.

Chung’s calligraphy has been described as “fluid, poetic, and elegant artistry.” His oil paintings, ranging from realistic to semi-abstract, capture a light that can be softly focused or sharply edged. Another artistic interest includes Chinese seal engravings (referring to the carving of a seal or stamp traditionally used as a signature on artwork or other documents).

The artist has traveled extensively throughout the world, and his experiences with varied countries and cultures have strongly influenced his interest in the future of art and its ever-changing trends on an international scale.

Born in China, Chung grew up in Taiwan, and has been a resident of Austin, Texas, for more than 30 years. He comes from a family of artists, with a strong heritage centered around Chinese culture. His initial exposure to art came from his father, Xing Chung, himself a skilled and talented Chinese calligraphy artist.

Peter Chung learned Western painting theories and skills in Taiwan from artist Chiu-Ling Hsu and was educated at the Taiwan National Art College. During this time, he won first place in calligraphy at the Mr. Long-Yen Chang Calligraphy Contest in Taiwan.

In 2007, he won the gold medal in Chinese Calligraphy from the Chinese International Calligraphy and Painting Arts Association during the 10th Anniversary Remembrance of Hong Kong’s Return to China.

The Plainsboro Library is located at 9 Van Doren Street, Plainsboro. Hours are 10 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday through Sunday. For more information, call (609) 275-2897.