On January 13, 2020 local time, Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa met with State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Harare. Vice President Constantino Chiwenga was present.

Emmerson Mnangagwa said, Zimbabwe and China enjoy a profound friendship and Zimbabwe regards China as a sincere and reliable friend. President Xi Jinping and I have met many times and decided to upgrade bilateral relations to a comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership. The Zimbabwean side is pleased with and proud of this new positioning. In Zimbabwe's process of striving for national independence, safeguarding national sovereignty and opposing Western interference and sanctions, China has always extended firm support to Zimbabwe, which the Zimbabwean side will never forget. Zimbabwe appreciates China's selfless assistance to Zimbabwe's economic and social development and hopes that China will continue to help Zimbabwe speed up its economic reform and realize economic development. The Zimbabwean side firmly supports the One China principle and will continue to support the Chinese side on all issues concerning China's core interests. The Zimbabwean side hopes to take the opportunity of celebrating the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations to deepen political mutual trust and upgrade practical cooperation with the Chinese side. The Zimbabwean side expects more Chinese investors to invest and start business in Zimbabwe, and believes that the two countries will enjoy broader development prospects.

Wang Yi said, China is Zimbabwe's time-honored and reliable partner. President Emmerson Mnangagwa cherishes the friendship with China. The Chinese side highly appreciates Emmerson Mnangagwa's personal attention to supporting Zimbabwe-China cooperation that has kept advancing the bilateral relationship to new highs. The Chinese side supports the Zimbabwean side's efforts to safeguard its national sovereignty and dignity, supports the Zimbabwean side's choice of a development path that is in line with its national conditions, and supports the Zimbabwean side's just proposition that unfair sanctions against Zimbabwe should be lifted as soon as possible. The Chinese side is willing to see Zimbabwe develop friendly and cooperative relations and expand diplomatic exchanges with more countries. The Chinese side appreciates the Zimbabwean side's valuable support on issues related to the Chinese side's core interests, and will provide assistance to the Zimbabwean side within its capabilities and share China's experience in state governance and administration without any reservation.

Wang Yi expressed, both countries are at a crucial point in the state development and national rejuvenation this year as China will meet its target of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and accomplish its first centenary goal, and Zimbabwe will celebrate the 40th anniversary of its independence and vigorously advance its Vision 2030. The Chinese side is willing to translate the high degree of political mutual trust between the two sides into an inexhaustible force driving bilateral practical cooperation, and make good use of the Belt and Road Initiative and the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation to promote the implementation of more cooperation projects between the two sides to better serve the interests of the two peoples. Both sides should also cement coordination on international and regional issues to cope with challenges more effectively.

During his visit, Wang Yi also met with Zimbabwean Vice President Constantino Chiwenga, and held talks with Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Trade Sibusiso Busi Moyo as well as met the press together.