Fine Arts Photographer, Luciana Pampalone receives United Nations Cultural Award in support of bridging cultural community projects through sustainability and diversity in the Arts covering multiple platforms between the nations of China, Africa, and the United States. In order to better promote the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, the Commutech Group and New York's ASA College hosted "Celebrating the Chinese Spring Festival, uniting China, the United States, and Africa through a Cultural Exchange Event" on January 29, 2020, at ASA's Manhattan College Campus culminating in an awards ceremony.

Celebrity Fine Arts Artist Luciana Pampalone and her 23 Karat Gold Mixed Media Painting titled, "Sag Harbor Poppies" with United Nations Commutech Group Andy Lin and Jun Li

Photo: Dave Warren Images, Luciana Pampalone Studio 2020

Painters, musicians, folk dance artists, architects and people from all walks of life participated. The primary purpose of this event was to promote business and cultural exchanges, as well as to create a bridge for China, the United States and African corporations to collaborate on myriad global initiatives governing financial investments, hunger relief, water conservation, energy alternatives, education, the arts, and music exchange, tourism, and exchanges in the fields of technology, health, and medicine.

Pampalone was cited for her outstanding contribution to society and her commitment to reaching across global cultural boundaries through her artistic interpretation of nature's bounty. Luciana creates singular canvas compositions of colorful flowers, meticulously over-lain in 24 karat gold leaf, ascribing purposeful depth and shimmer, which has invoked a comparison to the work of Gustav Klimt. Pampalone remarks, "Every picture tells a story and every canvas I create is filled with emotion. Art is a universal form of expression and everyone can derive something from their own perspective. That's why it's so important for the arts to be supported. Our planet is in an uproar and sustainability is important to me. Photographing flowers is a way to preserve them while pouring my emotion into the work."

Artist Luciana Pampalone Studio

"Sag Harbor Poppies"

Luciana Pampalone Studio 2020

Ms. Pampalone dedicated a floral art piece specifically for display in a Chinese museum in China commemorating the Chinese New Year entitled: "Sag Harbor Poppies", Her work was applauded by the entire assemblage as she took to the podium to receive her award.

To contact Luciana Pampalone:

Instagram: @lucianapampalone

Facebook: @lucianapampalone

Twitter: @LucianaPampalo1

Website: https://www.lucianapampalonestudios.com

Media Contact

Company Name: AP Music & Productions

Contact Person: Media Relations

Email: Send Email

Phone: 347-526-8178

Country: United States

Website: http://www.aaronpaulmusic.com







