The company visits more than 60 old folks’ homes across Malaysia this Chinese New Year

IN celebrating the upcoming festivities of Chinese New Year, McDonald’s Malaysia continues its tradition of embracing the True Meaning of Prosperity for the fourth year, with restaurant crew members visiting more than 60 old folks’ homes across the nation ahead of Chinese New Year 2020.

Residents of Evershine Elderly Retirement Home doing the auspicious Prosperity Toss or Yee Sang together with restaurant crew members of McDonald’s Malaysia to usher in Chinese New Year 2020.

The visits to more than 60 old folks’ homes started on Jan 13 and will continue up to Feb 8. This initiative involves crew members from over 290 McDonald’s restaurants nationwide, with the aim of embracing the spirit of togetherness during this celebration that is rooted in tradition and family.

McDonald’s crewmembers and residents sharing quiet, quality moments.

“At McDonald’s, we believe that prosperity is really about giving abundantly what we can, beyond material wealth. In this case, spreading joy by spending quality time with the residents of the homes reflects the True Meaning of Prosperity at McDonald’s, ” said McDonald’s Malaysia Managing Director and Local Operating Partner, Azmir Jaafar.

“We are so happy to see the smiles on the residents’ faces and we sincerely hope that our efforts will make their Chinese New Year celebration even more meaningful and memorable, especially when ushering in a new decade.”

Prosperity Begins With You: McDonald’s crew members sharing quiet, quality moments with residents of the homes.

In preparation for the festive season, McDonald’s Malaysia employees cleaned and spruced up the homes and also brought meals for the residents.

In preparation for the festive season, McDonald’s Malaysia employees cleaned and spruced up the homes and also brought meals for the residents of the homes.

“We are a big family at this home and having McDonald’s employees come over to prepare for Chinese New Year makes us really happy, ” said Liu Xue Mei, one of the residents at Rumah Orang Tua Ampang.

McDonald’s Malaysia visits more than 60 old folks’ homes across the nation ahead of Chinese New Year 2020.

Since the initiative was first introduced in 2017, McDonald’s Malaysia’s restaurant crew members have visited more than 250 old folks’ homes nationwide, and engaged with more than 10,000 residents of these homes.

Visits to the old folks’ homes reaffirm the company’s commitment in giving back to the communities it operates in. Additionally, the initiative emphasises the importance of care and respect towards the elderly.

You can also watch the video of this initiative here: https://youtu.be/5C6TwLynM08

For more information on McDonald’s, visit www.mcdonalds.com.my