Bangkok, Thailand, 2020-Feb-19 — /Travel PR News/ — Art enriches the soul and appeals to people from all walks of life. No matter where we visit, art captures and depicts the unique beauty and spirit of the locals and the destinations they call home. With a diverse portfolio across its home country of Thailand, Amari has curated a selection of distinctive art showcases near three of its iconic hotels and resorts in Bangkok, Pattaya and Phuket. Whether it’s a solo getaway or a reunion with family and friends, enhance your trip with these artsy ideas and take advantage of discounts and special packages offered by Amari throughout 2020.

Something nouveau with Amari Watergate Bangkok

Those looking to uplift their spirits can feel refreshed with this revolutionary interactive arts exhibition titled “SOMETHING NOUVEAU KLIMT, MUCHA, BEARDSLEY” at the waterfront arts and antiques destination River City Bangkok. Following the success of the much loved “From Monet to Kandinsky” exhibition, this new River City arts showcase features a wide range of captivating masterpieces by Gustav Klimt, Alphonse Mucha and Aubrey Beardsley, all displayed with interactive digital installations and 3D virtual technology. Visitors can not only take a closer look at the artworks, they can also have fun playing, snapping and sharing content in real life and via social media with their loved ones.

Located just a short ride from the venue, near one of Bangkok’s renowned wholesale and retail shopping markets, Amari Watergate Bangkok warmly welcomes art enthusiasts with a Hot Deal Package offering a two-night stay in a Deluxe King room, and a complimentary 30-minute spa massage and two-hours of unlimited wine and beer at Cascade, to unwind after exploring the exhibition. Cast the anxieties of time management away, as the package also includes complimentary early check-in and late checkout. Nightly rates start at 3,570 THB ++ per room. The deal is available until 31 October 2020.

Exclusively for visitors staying at Amari hotels, get 10% off* by showing your room key card while purchasing the entrance tickets at River City.

For more information and reservations, please visit https://www.amari.com/watergate

*Remark: The discount is applicable when purchasing adult tickets only, and excludes MODA VR studio access.

Share humour and laughter at Parody Art Museum

If you are into great masterpieces by world famous artists such as Sandro Botticelli, Michelangelo and Raffaello, you will enjoy seeing them in a new light at Parody Art Museum, just a few minutes drive from Amari Pattaya. This one-of-a-kind museum brings the appreciation of classical art to the future, as it features legendary artworks recreated in an amusing and approachable style. From satirical classic paintings and sculptures to 4D fantasy art featuring Thai traits, the place is perfect for visitors of all ages.

Located just a stone’s throw from the Parody Art Museum, Amari Pattaya is an ideal base for a family reunion and vacations with friends. It offers a completely revamped swimming pool with a tree house-themed water park, and a massive Kids’ Club with a dedicated animation team to keep children occupied with fun activities all day. To make the best of your Pattaya vacation, the hotel is offering an Advances Purchase Offer. Early birds can save up to 20% when booking at least seven days in advance. The deal is available until 31 October 2020. Nightly rates start at 2,850 THB ++ per room.

For more information and reservations, please visit https://www.amari.com/pattaya/

A walk through Phuket’s history at Phuket Thaihua Museum

Formerly the first Chinese language institute on the island, Phuket Thaihua Museum occupies a heritage Sino-Portuguese building on Krabi Road in Phuket’s old town. The museum plays a significant role in conserving the island’s unique architectural heritage. A visit to the museum is a must for history-minded travellers who want to find out more about Phuket’s past, since Chinese immigrants first settled on the island. Thirteen sections feature different aspects of Phuket, including local textiles and costumes, flavourful specialties and traditional festivals and culture. Whether this is your first time in Phuket or a return visit, the opportunity to learn what Phuket was like before it was discovered by the rest of the world is priceless.

Located at a secluded cove near vibrant Patong beach, Amari Phuket is perfect for those seeking a tranquil spot for full relaxation without being too far from the action and access to a wide range of outdoor activities. As one of the leading resorts on this island hideaway, Amari offers a Phuket Super Saver Package, including a three-night stay in a Superior Ocean Facing room. After arriving at Phuket International Airport, travel in comfort on a complimentary round-trip airport shuttle and refuel with a sumptuous Thai dinner at the resort’s waterfront Rim Talay Restaurant, and recharge with 20% off a relaxing treatment at Breeze Spa. Nightly rate starts at 5,195 THB+++. The deal is available for stays until 15 December 2020.

For more information and reservations, please visit https://www.amari.com/phuket/

Contact:

Email: onyx.pr@onyx-hospitality.com

Source: ONYX Hospitality Group

###