Nicole Chia’s work means more than just a job to her. Having founded her own jewellery business, she is passionate about making a difference in other people’s lives through personal ornaments.

“They can carry messages of emotion. I love small things with big meaning. That is what jewellery means to me, ” the 31-year-old states.

“Sometimes you want to feel secure or loved. By simply touching the charm hanging on your collarbone, you will find peace and calm because it is emotionally connected to you, ” she adds.

Chia, who hails from Kuala Lumpur, first started selling fashion accessories. She then doubled down to create Minimalist Lab in 2014, a brand that offers jewellery with an emotional touch.

“I was a mass communications student in university. I had no fashion background at the beginning but I had great interest in creating beautiful things in life, ” she enthuses.

The hallmark of the brand lies with its simple charms. Made from gold, rose gold or silver, each design spreads a message of positivity, passion, love and inspiration.

Created using raw materials imported from Thailand, China and the United States, the jewellery pieces are assembled locally.

“I love everything pretty and positive, ” Chia explains. “Every charm comes with its own message; everything is made and written with love.”

Her children, Nikita and Noah (pic), are the source of inspiration in Nicole Chia’s latest collection.

The entrepreneur views life as a gift. Drawing a parallel with her charms, she says they are a cherished memento – little things that can remind you of someone or that special moment.

“A lot of our customers buy our products as a gift for their loved ones. They choose specific charms that represent hope and/or positive traits of the recipients, and as a remembrance of important life moments and experiences.”

Recently, Chia released a collection inspired by her children, Nikita and Noah. Named Love, Nicole, it comprises a curated selection of designs that tells the joy of being a mother.

“I think children are amazing stress relievers. Their faces always remind me about purity and kindness, which I think my brand speaks about too, especially when it comes to femininity and a life mantra, ” Chia concludes.

The Paper’s People is an occasional column about Malaysia-based everyday folk who do what they love. If you have someone to recommend, e-mail us at lifestyle@thestar.com.my.