Emaar Properties signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Xiaomi, to launch ‘Emaar Smart Home’.

Emaar’s new product will launch in 2020 as an exclusive set of digitally-enabled residential developments, powered by Xiaomi and featuring a one-of-a-kind smart home experience with a comprehensive set of pre-installed smart home and IoT products. The MoU positions Emaar as the first developer outside of China to enter into a strategic partnership with Xiaomi for a smart home experience.

The new agreement is aligned with Emaar’s commitment to create communities that meet the demands of tomorrow’s customers. Emaar selected Xiaomi as its strategic partner within the smart home technology sector. 'Emaar Smart Home' will provide customers with connected smart home experiences that are controlled and monitored through Xiaomi's Mi Home app. The app, along with products that support smart voice assistant controls, allows users to manage their personal smart home ecosystem.

Commenting on the product launch, Chairman of Emaar, Mohamed Alabbar said: “‘Emaar Smart Home’, is a testament to the commitment Emaar and Xiaomi share for creating advanced living experiences. Together, our partnership delivers a novel product never-before-seen in the region, offering connectivity, comfort and convenience for the customers of tomorrow, today. This is based on our collective understanding and insight into what customers will demand from us in the future.”

“One of Xiaomi’s core strategies focuses on Artificial Intelligence and the Internet of Things,” said Chew Shou Zi, Senior Vice President, President of International at Xiaomi. “With Emaar as our partner, we are confident that we will showcase just how advanced the latest Xiaomi smart home products are. We believe this partnership brings together two of the world’s foremost industry leaders with shared digital ambition, customer-centricity, and focus on high product quality. We are excited to be launching our range of smart home products in the region with Emaar.”