© Provided by The Star Online Dr Sahruddin (second from right) visiting an the exhibition after launching and rebranding Seri Alam as 'Smart City of Knowledge' and UMLand's Chinese New Year celebration.

JOHOR BARU: The Iskandar Malaysia Comprehensive Development Plan (CDP) plays an important role in helping Malaysia transform into a smart city, in line with the 12th Malaysia Plan (12MP) 2021-2025.

Johor Mentri Besar Datuk Dr Sahruddin Jamal said one of the key features of smart cities was the integration of technology into the services, that would generally improve public safety and their quality of life.

“These include 5G or 5G technology networks, cashless communities, efficient public transport, energy-efficient buildings, efficient water treatment and smart waste management.

“Given that there are many students in Iskandar Malaysia, we also need to look at the definition of Smart City from this point of view as our way of thinking and implementation to achieve Iskandar Malaysia’s vision in 2025, ” said Dr Sahruddin in his speech at the launch and rebranding by United Malayan Land Berhad (UMLand Berhad) of Seri Alam as Smart City of Knowledge and Chinese New Year celebrations at UMLand Seri Alam Properties Sales Gallery here.

The mentri besar, who is also co-chairman of Iskandar Malaysia Regional Development Authority (Irda), said there are three key areas under smart city development, namely economic, environmental and social balance.

“These key features are backed by six dimensions such as smart economy, smart governance, smart environment, smart mobility, smart people and smart life.

“These are all the groundwork for building a dream city, ” he said, adding that these efforts will offer many benefits to all, especially in helping the local community benefit from the economic growth of the region.

On the event, UMLand executive deputy chairman Datuk Ng Eng Tee said Bandar Seri Alam was chosen and re-branded as “Smart City of Knowledge” in line with Irda Smart City guidelines and low-carbon blueprint.

“This is due to Seri Alam’s true organic development growth and based on the advise of Irda, together we plan to be part of Malaysia’s vision to achieve Industrial Revolution 4.0 society.

“With this re-branding, we will also embark on a strategic collaboration with renewable energy company TNBX, Regency and Telekom Malaysia, with Irda as a supporting partner, ” he said.