45 Sierra Leonean Youth completes the Training Course on Stitching and Sewing skills Sponsored by the Chinese Government

2020/01/21

On 20th of January 2020, the closing ceremony of Training Course on Stitching and Sewing Skills was held at Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA) Hall in Freetown. The 90 days training course was sponsored by the Chinese government and supported by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security of the Sierra Leonean government, with an objective to empower Sierra Leonean youth with stitching and sewing skills.

The ceremony was graced by H.E. Hu Zhangliang, Chinese Ambassador to Sierra Leone, Mr. Zhang Xueqian, Economic and Commercial Counsellor of the Chinese Embassy, Hon. Lansana Dumbuya, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Security, Hon. Jurad Senesie, Deputy Minister of Technical and Higher Education, Mr. Charles Moinina, Director of Youth of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Ms Grace Fullah, Principal of YWCA institution. 6 Chinese teachers, 45 trainees with their family members, and 20 students from Fourah Bay College Secondary School also attended the closing ceremony.

Ambassador Hu congratulated all the trainees on completing the training course.Ambassador Hu stated thathuman capital developmentis one of the top priorities in H.E. President Julius Maada Bio’ New Direction Manifesto, and over the years, China has been helping Sierra Leone in human capital development on a large scale.

After watching the fashion show organized by the trainees, Ambassador Hu believed that the training course had ultimately fulfilled its purpose by making the 45 participants skillful tailorsor fashion designers. Ambassador Hu assured that China will continue to provide support and assistance to Sierra Leone for its economic and social development within her capacity and based on the principle of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit.

Hon. Lansana Dumbuya, Hon. Turad Senesie, Mr. Moinina and Ms. Fullah on behalf of their ministries and institution, expressed their sincere thanks and appreciation to the Chinese government for the great support to human capital development in Sierra Leone. They highlighted that promotion of youth employment could never be materialized if there were no skills involved, and they looked forward to seeing more training opportunities provided by the development partners.

During the closing ceremony, 45 participants wore the clothes and dresses made by themselves during the training course and successfully put up a fascinating fashion show for all the guests present. Furthermore, they presented one piece of delicate embroidery as a gift to the representatives of the two governments to express their gratitude. They also presented 20 bespoke uniforms to 20 students from Fourah Bay College Secondary School to demonstrate their support and contribution to the “Free Quality Education”.